Microsoft is offering gamers with broadband the chance to try out its new online gaming system, Xbox Live three months ahead of its official launch.From tomorrow, gamers with a broadband internet connection can pit their game playing skills against other players in a three-month beta test of the service. These so-called "Live pioneers" will be able to talk to other players via a headset and build up their own profile online.Microsoft hopes that Xbox Live will help it compete more effectively for the number one spot in the games console sales charts above its rivals, the GameCube from Nintendo and Sony's Playstation 2. Sony is set to follow suit with its own European online gaming network, which is due to go live early next year.Gamers will need to buy a £39.99 starter pack from the Xbox Live website to get started. The kit includes all the necessary software, plus the communicator headset plus a 12-month subscription to the service, which will be fully launched to the gamers on March 14 next year.Microsoft  says Xbox Live is "designed to work on most broadband services", including BT Openworld, NTL and Telewest Broadband, although AOL broadband is notably absent from the list.As for the games available, the starter pack includes special versions of Whacked! And MotoGP, while games available for live play during the beta test include Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon, MechAssault and Unreal Championship.Microsoft has also promised to launch another 50 or so games for Xbox Live next year, including Project Gotham Racing 2, Star Wars: Galaxies and Halo 2. Microsoft says "more than 60 game publishers" are working on games enabled for the service.Michel Cassius, European director of the Xbox platform, said: "The benefits of Xbox Live's service-led approach, as opposed to an add-on peripheral approach, mean that the gamer's experience is a better, smoother one - no lag asssociated with narrowband, no cheating and hacking because of a decentralised approach, and no individual logins or bills for each game."
Lisa Guernsey on a quest forfemale bloggers, in the New York Times [free registration required].
The New York Times is the latest paper totake a look at Google's wall, which shows what the world is searching for [free registration required].
Thursday's Guardian includes the latest printed version of the Online section, and you can read itonlineas well....
If you are running a version of RealPlayer, hackers could apparently take over your PC. And while Real Networks has produced a patch, the company that exposed the holes saysit doesn't work, reports The Register.
If you like to poke your PDA's screen,Magic Fingercould be the answer....
Games console buyers are familiar with Christmas bundles -- you get a bunch of free games that would nominally cost more than the console, but you probably don't want them and wouldn't buy them anyway. The newXbox bundlecould look like a typical example, but at least it includes both of the Xbox "show off" games, Halo and Splinter Cell. Since most Xbox owners probably would pay for both, it looks like a good deal.
Of all the things show at Comdex, one has the chance to be outstandingly useful:Microsoft's OneNote. This will be a new Office application, and therefore very widely distributed. It also fills a need, in gathering up useful but possibly epehmeral information. Of course, the people who really need this sort of thing have probably already adopted or adapted an application to do the job -- in my case,AskSam.
Driving your car guided by satellite navigation is bliss for any serious gadget lover - or at least it is when it is working properly. Testing the new Tom Tom Navigator on a drive from London to Herefordshire turned out to be an experience of two halves. Going down it worked very well with the aid of only a Pocket PC and the Tom Tom GPS (global positioning system) device hanging from the windscreen by a suction disc.All you do is type in the road you are departing from and the road or village you want to go to. A small arrow on the screen map tells you exactly where you are and you can follow your car down roads and across roundabouts. It even marks tracks as well as secondary roads.It guided us successfully out of London on to to the M4, except when I misguidedly added instructions to get us to the nearest pizza restaurant, which it kept trying to do along the motorway until I found the way to change the instruction (my fault).There was a short period when we got no reception between the London map and the Birmingham one, as there wasn't enough memory in the Pocket PC to load the complete map of Britain.Navigation is possible in two ways. A passenger can look at the map and monitor exactly where you are to within a few metres and the exact speed - as long as you are in contact with the requisite number of satellites. Or, if you are driving, you can simply switch on the voice function, which gives precise instructions.We arrived at our destination having discovered from the map the existence of a river close to a road we thought we knew well but which couldn't be seen from the car. I was beginning to become hooked.Coming back was a disappointment, as it only rarely picked up satellite signals. When we got to London, it didn't seem able to pick up signals. However, the next day, it was picking up signals in London as if nothing had happened.The Navigator costs &#163;289.95 (excluding the Pocket PC) and is now available from Carphone Warehouse and 02 shops. Discounted prices are available fromwww.clove.co.uk. Or, you can buy instead an XDA pocket PC with Navigator bundled in for &#163;499.The Navigator is a bit more expensive than such rival products as Navman (&#163;215 to &#163;250) because, the company claims, it has superior mapping technology and voice prompts. Downloads that include the location of speed cameras, football clubs, stations and hotels are available.It is really a device for early adopters, but it also gives an early taste of the usefulness of location-based phones that will be coming on to the market in increasing numbers during the next few years. And prices will, of course, continue to drop.
The 23rd annual Comdex/Fall exhibition, held in Las Vegas last week, was packed with more than 100,000 people seeking the latest and greatest computers and other hi-tech gadgets. Pickings were thinner than usual but there were still lots of novelties to be found, including a small Palm-compatible PDA you wear on your wrist, and a $99 Olympus W-10 digital voice recorder with built-in low-resolution camera. This is not a silly idea if you can use mug shots to help identify the people you have interviewed.Microsoft's Windows XP Tablet PC Edition took the overall Best of Show award, presented by the editors of PC Magazine. Toshiba's Portege 3500 Tablet PC was voted the best PC, and Corel's Grafigo program for the Tablet PC was voted best personal software, beating Franklin Covey's TabletPlanner for Tablet PC. But Fossil's Wrist PDA interrupted the Tablet PC's triumphal progress by taking the award for best mobile device.Acer, Fujitsu, Hewlett-Packard and Toshiba had already unveiled their portable, pen-operated Tablet PCs at the UK launch earlier this month. Tatung, from Taiwan, also showed a familiar-looking system: Tatung supplies the Tablet PC that RM (Research Machines) is selling to British schools.Xplore Technologies attracted attention by showing its military-specification iX104 Rugged Tablet PC outside the convention centre, mounted inside a police patrol car. It has illuminated function keys that can be programmed, so officers can summon maps or licence plate details at the push of a button (www.xploretech.com/ix104/iX104.html).Walkabout Computers also  showed a ruggedised mil-spec Tablet PC for mobile workers, the Hammerhead XRT (www.walkabout-comp.com/).Viewsonic, best known as a monitor manufacturer, showed both a Tablet PC and two Mira remote screens. Its V1100 is a simple 1.55kg tablet with 256MB of memory, an 866MHz Intel Pentium III processor and a 10.4-inch screen. It is available now for &#163;1,699 in the UK (www.viewsoniceurope.com/UK/Products/TabletPDA/V1100.htm). The company also   showed V110 and V150 Airpanel remote displays with 10-inch and 15-inch screens based on Microsoft's Mira design, with 206MHz Intel StrongArm chips running Windows CE. The V150 also got a Best of Show award.You can use an Airpanel as a standard monitor, the bonus being that you can pick it up and walk around with it. Both Airpanels use Wi-Fi wireless networking to display screens from Windows XP Professional running on a standard desktop PC. They should be out early next year for $999 and $1,299 respectively - prices that suggest most users would be better off buying a notebook PC instead.Dell Computer scored a hit with its first PocketPC, the Axim X5, with devices priced at $299 and $199. The competition included Hewlett-Packard's iPaq Pocket PC h5400 series with built-in fingerprint recognition for security, and View sonic's Pocket PC V35.CMC Magnetics Corporation from Taiwan showed two handhelds: the PPC-500 and PPC-510 running Microsoft's Windows CE (which is used in PocketPCs), and the EZ range of four machines running a "Palm like" operating system called Penbex. The PPC handhelds have 206MHz Intel StrongArm processors with 64MB of memory, while the EZ models have 33MHz Motorola Dragonball chips and 8MB of memory ( http://cmc.taiwanet.com ).In the mouse market, Gyration drew the biggest crowds with its ultra cordless optical mouse, which has a built-in gyroscope. If you get tired of pushing it around a desktop, you can wave it in mid-air, like a remote control. It works with PCs and Macs at distances of up to 25 feet (www.gyration.com). The Gyration is available from several UK suppliers, including Dabs.Evoluent had a simpler idea: the VerticalMouse. This is a tall, right-handed mouse with the buttons on the side. The company says the shape "supports your hand in a neutral, relaxed handshake position that eliminates forearm twisting" (www.evoluent.biz). Another ergonomic option is the Ullman PenClic Mouse, from Sweden, which looks like a pen stuck into a small holder. However well it works, it has two drawbacks: the company expects it to cost more than $100, and the online brochure is in Swedish (www.kondator.se/pdfarkiv/pdf/penclic.pdf).One unexpected feature of the show was the arrival of more business card scanners. This idea was pioneered by the Covox CardScan (www.cardscan.com), which used text recognition software to scan a business card and try to enter the data into the correct fields. Pushing a button sent it off to Microsoft Outlook, ACT or another address book. Now CardScan has competition. NewSoft showed the Presto BizCard reader (www.newsoftinc.com), and Taiwan's Penpower Technology showed the WorldCard English business card recognition system (www.penpower.net/enversion). Sadly for Penpower, my Guardian business card was too wide to fit its reader.But the gadget of the show was probably Philips' iPronto TSi6400 wireless home control panel, measuring 9.4 by 7 inches (www.pronto.philips.com). This has both Wi-Fi (802.11b) and infrared   capabilities so you can train it to control almost anything. It has its own Intel XScale processor, 128MB of memory, web browser and 640 by 480 pixel colour screen, so it can download and display TV programme information.You can also use it to surf the web to look up the football results, for example, or order a pizza. It even has a built-in microphone, headphone socket and stereo speakers. I asked the price and was told it cost "sixteen ninety-nine". This sounded either impossibly cheap ($16.99) or ridiculously expensive ($1,699). There are no prizes for guessing which of those is correct.
Phono-what?It is no surprise to learn that Jay Berman (Feedback, November 21) represents the views of the "Phonographic Industry", a term coined in 1835. His response to the concept of file sharing is both reactionary and lacking in lucid argument. Copyright material has been copied for as long as copyright material has existed. Instead of reiterating the same lame arguments about "cynical profiteering", it would be refreshing to hear some innovative thinking coming from the music industry.Let's get a few things straight about file sharing. Generally speaking (and at least until broadband is truly widely available), the process is long winded and somewhat hit and miss. It delivers sound that is not true CD quality, and the software used represents a virus risk and is packed with irritating pop-up advertising (and worse). Despite all the disadvantages, I do use Kazaa. And guess what? My average spend on legitimate music has increased by some 150% as a result.Downloading an album across the web isn't worth the effort for most of us. However, I regularly download sample tracks. Sorry, David Gray, I downloaded a copy of your single Sail Away a few months ago. I liked it so much that I went straight out and bought the CD. Sorry, McAlmont &amp; Butler, I downloaded your single Falling recently. I didn't like it, won't buy the CD, and will probably never listen to it again. When will this industry get real?The digitisation of the media has happened and what a fabulous marketing opportunity it offers. Let's see less money wasted on doomed attempts to control the technology and more thought put into ways of providing content-rich products in advance of the widespread availability of broadband. Current users of phonographs are excused from trying to understand the foregoing arguments.Duncan Parks(email address supplied)Beware geeksAzeem Azhar claims that Apple's introduction of its new, Unix-based OS X operating system has helped it attract a new constituency of "uber-geeks". As a formerly rabid Mac loyalist, I find this worrying.Presumably, these are the same "uber-geeks" who preferred Windows in the past because it offered so many opportunities - virtually necessities - for tinkering with the machine. Presumably these same "uber-geeks" are now delighted to have access to Unix - an ancient, arcane OS originally written to run telephone exchanges in the 60s - on their desktop. Apple's new OS X barely conceals the horrendous complexity of Unix, with which one is forced to grapple given the inevitable teething problems of the new system. This complexity is the antithesis of what the Mac revolution was meant to be about. It's a new OS all right, but I don't think it's a Mac OS in anything but name.Adrian Langfordadrian@qualitative.co.ukPicture thisI've been havering about digital cameras, waiting for the right price/quality, and meanwhile find that taking film photographs and using a scanner to send pictures by email or keep them in my computer, I can still also keep my high quality photographs. Best of both worlds. In fact, I take my scanner with me on my travels, and not only scan and send photographs, but postcards as well, or anything else of interest. Maybe I won't get a digital camera, after all...Constantine de Goguelcongee@btinternet.comSlow speedI read this article with great interest, especially since I recently bought a Canon Powershot S45. The literature warned me about shutter speed, so I was prepared for this drawback. However, I was not prepared for what I can only describe as the "effective film speed". For the S45 this is disappointingly slow: in anything but really bright conditions I find the shutter speed is set to 1/30 sec or less and I'm being warned about camera shake! As far as I know there is no attribute that specifies this critical characteristic. The only solution is to use a tripod for landscape photos - something I never have to do using 200 ASA film in a film camera!Peter F Smithpeter@earlsdon.free-online.co.ukScam battleThe article on Nigerian 419 scams (November 21) failed to mention how recipients of such emails can help combat it. The National Criminal Intelligence Service has a dedicated address: 419@spring39.demon.co.uk) to which copies of such emails (including full headers!) can be sent. Every constabulary in the UK also has a dedicated officer to whom such communications can be forwarded.Nat Queenn.m.queen@birmingham.ac.ukTablet cureThe combination of a wireless connection and a Tablet PC (Feedback, November 21) could have no better application than patients' notes in hospitals. Doctors and nurses could share the information (without the need to find the wedge of papers) and the results from labs and X-rays could be added directly to each record. Handwritten or typed notes could be added, and searched by the hospital staff. Letters or emails could be written on the same device.Gordon Jolygordon.joly@pobox.comAddressing:Lettersonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk  Please include a full postal address and telephone numberPress releasesonline@guardian.co.ukFax020 7713 4154PostOnLine, the Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road London EC1R 3ERTelephone020 7278 2332You can also read online atwww.guardian.co.uk/onlineDisplay advertisingGavin Andrews: 020 7713 4418gavin.andrews@guardian.co.ukClassified advertisingGaby Bavidge 020 7611 9111gaby.bavidge@guardian.co.uk
&gt;connecting to server...Current Host:Chris2Current Topic:John Prescott let slip this week that "modernisation" of the fire service might include the loss of up to 10,000 jobs, making the prospect of an early end to the pay dispute seem remote. Is the government's position putting lives in danger? What do you think?Host_Chris2:although he clearly said all job cuts would be achieved through attritionOsama_bin_Laden:who is ann diamond anyway. is she blasphemousLadeezMan:she is now but she used to be quite thin*Pashmina has entered the NewsRoom*Pashmina:yo roomLadeezMan:heyOsama_bin_Laden:death 2 americaPashmina:so childish. LadeezMan why rnt u @ work???LadeezMan:its thanks-giving innitHost_Chris2:there is still the question of adequate fire coverPashmina:yes but that is american &amp; YOU are NOT*mullah'omar has entered the NewsRoom*mullah'omar:osama u in hereLadeezMan:I told my boss I was thoHost_Chris2:it does seem likely that fire stations will have to closeOsama_bin_Laden:hi omar hows umullah'omar:still in hiding uHost_Chris2:omar and osama I'm watching youPashmina:you dont even know what thanksgiving isOsama_bin_Laden:busy busyLadeezMan:Following the bountiful harvest of 1621, Governor William Bradford proclaimed a day of thanksgiving to be shared by all the colonists and the neighboring Native American Indiansmullah'omar:wots upPashmina:did you just google thatOsama_bin_Laden:i got a new video coming out soonLadeezMan:no I did it this morning in case my boss askedPashmina:&amp; wot did he sayOsama_bin_Laden:any new fatwahs this week omarLadeezMan:your sackedmullah'omar:miss world gary rhodes john prescott and &amp; anne diamondOsama_bin_Laden:yes I heard ann diamond was v blasphemousmullah'omar:thats why she has a fatwahPashmina:it's not her fault. she's depressed!Host_Chris2:anyone care to address the topic?Pashmina:g2g. Some of us has to work. sorry abt yr job LadeezMan*Pashmina has left the NewsRoom*LadeezMan:who cares at least im a proud americanOsama_bin_Laden:your hour has come infidelLadeezMan:thats what my horoscope saidmullah'omar:more blasphemyLadeezMan:no ta I already ate half a turkey on me ownconnection to server has been terminated...
Can you remember where you were when the first text message was sent in the UK? I'll give you a clue - it was 10 years ago next Tuesday. You can't? I'm not surprised.Nor can anyone else. In 1992 mobile phones, as mass market consumer products, were on no one's radar screen, let alone text messages. It is worth reminding ourselves that in 1991 a completely unknown company was facing bankruptcy and was on the verge of being taken over by Ericsson of Sweden.The company somehow pulled itself together and now manufactures 36% of the world's mobile phones. Its name is Nokia. It's an unpredictable world and nothing has been less predicted that the rise of text messaging. It was unplanned and came from nowhere to become the fastest growing phenomenon of recent times.Over 2 million text messages are now sent every hour in the UK. The industry claims that 95% of them arrive within 10 seconds "in normal circumstances".   Texting has opened up an entirely new layer of communication between people that didn't exist before - brief messages for which there is a huge demand but which don't merit all the ritual attached to a telephone call or the grandeur of a written letter.Texting has become a conduit for flirting, a means for parents to maintain contact with their children, of grandparents bonding with grandchildren, of television interacting with the audience and a marketing tool of huge potential for companies which, for the first time, can build up profiles of individual users and target them with finely honed offers.You can receive news flashes, football results or stock market prices by text message or else play games or vote in elections. There has even (time for a commercial) been atext message poetry competitionoffering creative possibilities for a medium that is often accused of dumbing down.The downside, though, is an increasing trend of unsolicited texts from companies bombarding phone owners with misleading promises of cash offers. Call it text abuse.Critics say that use of text shorthand - in order to fully use the limit of 160 characters in a text message - will make British spelling even worse than it is. But this may be offset by the spread of T9 or predictive texting which guesses the words you are trying to write.It reduces the number of key inputs you have to make by up to two thirds - but you have to know how to spell the word in the first place. The prize for the year's most impressive use of texting must surely go to Shazam.If you dial 2580 (at 50p a throw) and point your phone towards a radio or juke box playing a record - after a short period you will receive a text message giving the tune and who is playing it.The creative possibilities will be greatly enhanced by the arrival of multi-media phones which enable you to you send ring tones or photos with your text message. It remains to be seen whether texting is a flash in the pan or a permanent feature of the mobile landscape.It certainly chimes in with the primitive herd instincts of humans. Youngsters can now go into town without needing to say exactly where they are going because tribal discussions about what club to go to can be held later by texting each other or everyone else at once.Some people think that, as phones get more capacity, the need to restrict your message to 160 characters will cease and texting will give way to mobile emailing. But this may once again be confusing the medium with the message.Texting has not been successful simply because it enables you to communicate with others by phone without speaking. It has swept the world precisely because it is necessarily brief and no one expects any of the usual formalities (like starting with "Dear") to be observed. Its brevity may ensure its longevity.&#183;Victor Keegan is editor of Guardian OnlineVic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Once upon a time, getting broadband was easy. You picked up the phone or went online with your creaky old wind-up modem (which was six months old and therefore hopelessly out of date), you waited for your line to be ADSL-enabled and then the operative from your service provider came round to make it all work.None of which is a bad deal, except in a couple of respects. First, the delays you might have expected weren't always technical - they might be associated with the wait for an engineer to become available. Second, no matter what your requirements - networking, single user, you name it - you had to have the ADSL or cable modem your provider offered you. It was, in other words, a very new industry and there was all but no way "they" were going to let the new user loose on their equipment.Times change, and they change radically. The "self-install" option emerged during the summer and essentially it does what it hints at on the tin.Composer Nik Ryan bought the service through Breathe and has been delighted so far: "It took two weeks longer than expected because I let the modem sit there and waited for an engineer - I didn't realise that it was all turned on from the exchange," he says.Installation was simple. In his case, Breathe sent the modem, although not all suppliers do this (the ADSL modems are easy to pick up from decent hardware suppliers). Ryan plugged it in, entered a few numbers into boxes for the set-up according to the instructions, and was on the net permanently, immediately. "It changes the internet from a glorified Yellow Pages into a rich multimedia resource," he says.Ryan's use of the internet could be described as "extreme" since he's using it to collaborate with musicians in other countries and even continents. Using a software system called Rocket, he and his colleagues are able to share their work space on screen and put things together without being in the same place. On a recent trip to America he wrote some music for an advertisement: "There was someone in San Francisco doing the sound effects and someone in New York doing the voiceover; we had it all picture-synched in 12 minutes flat."Understandably, Ryan recommends broadband to anyone, both from the simplicity and the value points of view.Of course there are horror stories. Sean Fleming, an independent PR consultant, asked BTOpenworld to activate his line and send him the stuff - and not only did the Intel modem it supplied not work, it made his system crash. "I called on day one and among the things I asked was, if this isn't fixable, how easy will it be to cancel the service? They were adamant that I would have to pay the full 12-month subscription," he says."Every contact after that involved their insisting they weren't responsible for anything except the line." An engineer came and tested the line but refused to use Fleming's modem to do so. Fleming ended up talking to Intel's support himself on the phone, and eventually withdrew. He is currently considering other options. He points to websites and newsgroups reporting similar events as evidence that he is not alone.BTOpenworld itself says that its policy is to liaise between the product supplier and the customer whenever a third party product causes a problem, and that on-site engineers from BT Wholesale aren't actually from BTOpenworld itself, so they can't look at the modems.In fact a lot of the evidence suggests that self-install is a good option for the majority of business customers. NTL has noted a 50 per cent decrease in demand for technical support when people install their own systems, presumably in part because the equipment is designed for simplicity.All of which is fine if you can get broadband, but as the Broadband for Britain campaigners will confirm, it is not always that easy. Trevor Sherman is a freelance trainer and one of the campaign's "local heroes" - a walking example of why service provision isn't adequate. He lives close to the M1 just north of Nottingham, and his exchange has no plans to make broadband available."I want to work with colleagues and put our courses online, using teleconferencing as well. You need a good, synchronised connection for that, which basically knocks satellite on the head for me."The local exchange doesn't have an official "magic trigger" - the number of people requesting broadband that will force an exchange to upgrade to broadband - but BT gave Sherman an unofficial number of 200. "There are only 800 people in the village - it's a ludicrous number," he says.This hits businesses in the area as well as businesses elsewhere. "IBM has told employees who want to work substantially from home that it will pay for their ADSL connections," explains Sherman."One of our villagers wanted to take that up, but where can he go?" The campaign continues to press for ubiquitous broadband coverage.Assuming a business is in a broadband area, whether through an ADSL supplier or a cable company, the process of getting connected is simple. If you have an ISDN connection through BT's Business Highway or a similar service you will need to get this disconnected and, yes, you will lose the extra numbers that came with this. You then put your order in and wait for the modem to arrive. Meanwhile, BT turns the service on at its end and either your ISP sends a modem or you buy one, plug it in and follow the on-screen instructions.Ryan remains almost bemused by how straightforward DIY broadband installation was: "It's almost a philosophical point: you don't feel as though you ought to be paying extra for something that just comes into your house through a box that's already there."The opportunities it opens up are many; the costs are surprisingly low.Broadband: why it pays for small businessesSo once you actually have broadband, what can you do with it? If you're not suffering from the lack of an always-on connection, is this an issue you need to address? Frankly the answer is probably yes, partly because your competition will be doing so.Broadband can change your business, but only if your staff are willing to buy into the change. Emails, for example, will start to come in all the time rather than whenever you log on; this clearly means you can respond to them much more quickly.Only by actually doing so, though, will you reap any benefit. Researching items on the web, and internet-based procurement, will stop costing extra in the face of an unmetered, always-on account. And if you upload your own website or regularly send and receive large files electronically, the time these actions take will shoot down immediately.Remember, though, that the people to whom you are sending might not have broadband - so what seems a little file to you can turn out to be a very large one to the recipient with a simple dial-up account.The good news is the cost. ADSL connections, which are the most common form of broadband link, will set you back around £90 for one-off activation then around £17-£30 a month depending on who you're buying from.That's for a single user; businesses with LANs can expect to go up to around £70 a month. Compared with the average cost of ordinary internet provision these prices aren't too bad. Cable providers charge around the same, and satellite companies - no, it is affordable - are starting to offer services at around the £25 a month level.Of these options ADSL is the least hassle, particularly given the self-install option, since it doesn't involve any new cabling or infrastructure on your site. The others clearly require extras, but the disruption should only be comparable to having a new phone line put in.And broadband pays. East London-based travel agent Freestyle Ventures had grown earlier this year to the extent that it needed to do something more active than before about managing its data. It faced the choice of either hiring someone as an IT manager, or getting a third party to look after it. It chose the latter.   Managing director Stephen Roach explains that the timing was good. "The platform became available on which we could have all our data stored securely by someone else and access it over the internet," he says. He chose Telewest and opted for multi-user broadband. "We were also looking at leased lines for speed, but the costs were much more appealing for broadband."The installation, including seven Microsoft licences, went in six months ago. Employees with the right password and security controls can now get at company information anytime, no matter where they are in the world. Roach reckons costs over that period have shrunk by about 30% compared with what they would have been had he continued with his ISDN connection from home.He remains a satisfied customer: "When there's going to be a problem they call us first and tell us it's going to be down for a couple of hours or whatever; we usually find it's fixed in half the time."Further helpThings to check when commissioning broadband&#183;Try to get a service level agreement (SLA), with enforceable penalties if your broadband supplier lets you down&#183;Remember that cheapest isn't necessarily best - a lot of internet companies have gone under in the past, and you don't want to lose your connection&#183;Broadband does suffer the occasional outage - so don't forget to keep the old modem as a backup!
UnsafeI cannot open email attachments. Outlook Express 6 deletes them indiscriminately, saying: "OE removed access to the following unsafe attachments in your email." Some are important.Ruka ShenjeJack Schofield replies:This is a feature introduced with Microsoft Windows XP Service Pack 1 and Internet Explorer 6 Service Pack 1. If you install either, attachments are blocked by default. When you do need to read and save an attachment, go to Tools | Options and click on the Security tab. Untick the box that says "Do not allow attachments to be saved or opened that could potentially   be a virus" and click OK. Remember to tick the box again when you have finished saving your attachments.Another approach is mentioned in Microsoft Knowledge Base Article Q291387, OLEXP: Using Virus Protection Features in Outlook Express 6. (Search Google for Q291387.) This claims you can allow specific file types through. Double-click the My Computer icon (or in Windows XP, go to Start | My Computer), select Tools | Folder Options and click on the tab for File Types. Select the extension for the file type you want to allow, such as DOC for Microsoft Word documents. Next, click the Advanced button, and untick the box that says: "Confirm Open After Download".There is also a cheat you should not mention to anyone. If you choose to forward the message and its attachment to someone else, eg another of your email addresses, you may find that the attachment is accessible.Late upgradeI've got a 200MHz Dell running Windows 95 but I am likely to upgrade in 6-12 months. I also have a Windows 98 upgrade CD. Is it worth upgrading or should I leave it at Windows 95? MSN Messenger keeps freezing and the latest version does not run under W95.Andrew BerkereyJS:Windows 98, 98SE and Me are all worthwhile upgrades to Windows 95, which is now obsolete, as long as your PC has enough power. Windows 95 would run with 8MB or 16MB of memory on an Intel 486, whereas 98/98SE needs 32MB or preferably 48MB and a 160MHz Pentium MMX or better, and I think 64MB is advisable for Me. If you do decide to upgrade to W98, free downloads from the Windows Update Centre will bring it up to a level roughly comparable with Windows 98SE/Me. (Remember to back up essential data before upgrading.) However, at this stage it is not worth spending any money on a Windows 95 machine, though you may be able to raid someone else's obsolete PC for parts.BroadbandI have just had cable broadband installed. Do I need to take extra security precautions as I am "always on"?Alan Gentwww.alangent.comJS:Yes, you should install a firewall, which at the lowest and cheapest level is a program that monitors and can block incoming and outgoing traffic. Zone Alarm (www.zonelabs.com/store/content/home.jsp) was the program most home users adopted about two years ago. Today, Sygate (http://soho.sygate.com/) is a worthy contender and the one I prefer. Both are free for personal use, and more powerful "pro" versions are available at reasonable prices. Before installing a firewall, it is a good idea to run the online security scans at Sygate (http://scan.sygatetech.com/) and, say, Trend's Housecall (http://housecall.antivirus.com/housecall/start_corp.asp). You can also run checks before and after installation atwww.auditmypc.comorwww.blackcode.com/scan.CamerasYour article on digital cameras was excellent except it was a bit short of information on best buys and what you would recommend for different users.Charles RowbothamJS:Sorry, I tested several cameras and intended to include recommendations, but ran out of space and time. However, Phil Askey's Digital Photography Review (www.dpreview.com) is an outstanding source of information and reviews. Trywww.dp review.com/reviews/default.asp?view=ratingBackchat&#183;On the topic of connecting PCs via USB cables, John Blackburn points out that it isn't illegal: "The sloppy use on usb.org of the word 'illegal' simply means that an A-to-A  cable isn't part of the USB specification." A suitable cable with extra electronics is known as a USB Bridge, but "there is no standard design. I bought a PC-Linq (File Transfer version), which is totally reliable, but the software is feeble and can't be upgraded. It doesn't work with Laplink software". Ken Vines adds: "Using a USB Link Cable, from Lindy (www.Lindy.co.uk) will allow PC-PC, Mac-Mac, and PC-Mac connections, with appropriate software, which can be downloaded from the Lindy site. It needs Mac OS 9 or higher and anything other than Windows NT." However, as John Blackburn, Peter Bunney and others pointed out: "The cheapest and fastest link is made by connecting two PCs with an Ethernet network cross-over cable, avoiding the need for a hub." This only works for two computers.&#183;Dick Gill reckons my answer to Allan Cochrane, last week, was "seriously misleading". He says: "My experience is that &#91;ISDN is&#93; a much better option than you suggest. At 64kbps (guaranteed) it downloads eight times faster than my previous 56k (nominal) modem, and you get online in four seconds. I don't use the 128kbps option because you pay double call charges and my ISP doesn't support it, but I don't feel I'm missing out." The effective cost, he says, is &#163;12 a month because the &#163;25 rental   includes your normal BT line, and you get the first &#163;2.80 of calls a month free.&#183;Barry Schofield (bscho@lioncom.net) adds that ISDN is sold by BT as ISDN2e. The technical differences between ISDN and BT's Highway are explained atwww.lioncom.net/hhfaq1.htm. Schofield says: "You will find that you can get a 128Kbps ISDN service for &#163;14.99 from Onetel. This is actually a better service than ADSL since it has a contention ratio of one, ie you get 128Kbps." ADSL may have a top speed of, say, 512Kbps but a contention ratio of 50:1. Users are competing for, or sharing, the bandwidth.
As budget statements go, this was a tame one for small business. Forecasts of improved growth for everyone during the coming year don't necessarily ring true after previous predictions had to be lowered in the same speech. Just how much help there is for the small trader is a matter for debate.For example, the scope for provision of workplace childcare sounds a good idea in principle, but in practice it could end up looking glib. How many small businesses have the space for a cr¿che on their premises, or the inclination to take on all the insurances, staff checks and child safety adaptations they'd need?One way around this would be to find or establish a nursery nearby. Which is fine if employees with children work nearby and will reliably be around to pick them up, but supposing they're on the road most of the time, or they live an hour or so away? Dragging a screaming child across town on public transport isn't fun.Some sort of tax break for working parents paying for and selecting their own childcare, near where they live rather than where they work, would appear preferable.Childcare is arguably a young person's interest, as is training. At least, training is for the young if you're in this current Government. The apprenticeship task force is to be welcomed but it will not appeal to the forty- and fifty-somethings who may well be unemployed and is finding difficulty in getting back to work. And employers often don't mind hiring someone with a bit of experience; it is to be hoped that the extra cash for local learning and skills council areas will help bring those potential employees up to speed on skills they may need.Corporation tax had already shrunk, although anyone listening out for any cuts on red tape to free up time as well as money would have been disappointed. Tightening of the VAT rules was to be expected - if productivity is shrinking then the Government needs to make the best of revenues that are already owed.Unfortunately the rules on VAT are due to change in the middle of 2003 under a European directive to take account of software, music and other intangible goods sold electronically. In theory this will involve everyone charging the sales tax that applies in whichever country they sell to; if you trade internationally this could become a nightmare.Thirty States in the US are trialing an automated system from software company Taxware that calculates sales tax and sends it straight to their equivalent of HM C&amp;E at the point of payment so there is never a query or audit; HM C&amp;E is understood to be watching the experiment.There are also points in the pre-budget report that should give small traders nothing but relief. Local authorities will now be incentivised to encourage start-up businesses in their area. £75 million is to be spent on getting business education into schools and colleges, and in 2000 high unemployment areas there will be no stamp duty on commercial property transactions. Local authorities will have scope to relax the more stringent planning permission requirements - which will either be excellent or a bit of a Pandora's box.Much of the rest is window dressing. Urging everyone to be moderate in pay settlements is fine but it's a request, not a proposal with any teeth. And as has been said elsewhere, the success of the current financial plan is predicated completely on a sustained global upturn over the next 24 months. One can always hope, but the portents have yet to make themselves clear.Links
--TARGET="_new"&gt;The Full Pre-budget report speech--Full analysis of pre-budget report--HM Treasury
Broadband is a marvellous technology, but it can also pose a security threat if you don't take some care in setting up your systems. The main issue comes from one of broadband's biggest benefits: an always-on connection. This gives would-be intruders more of an opportunity to get in, and offers trojans (viruses that get into your computer then open its virtual doors wide for hackers or other viruses) more opportunities to do their work.The practical answer to the broadband security issue is to make absolutely sure your anti-virus software is up to date, and that your computer is firewalled at all times.Anti-virus software comes in numerous flavours. Essentially it detects and cleans or quarantines viruses on a system, whether networked or standalone. "Remember to update your anti-virus software to increase protection," advises Alastair Williams, enterprise product manager for Symantec. "Some programs will do this automatically by downloading the latest definitions whenever you are online."And if you are online the whole time, you will be up to date the whole time - so if someone works on and produces some virus code tomorrow at 9.00am, you will be protected as soon as there is a fix at your anti-virus company, which might be only a matter of hours later.Firewalls, meanwhile, work as filters. They insulate your computer from hackers so that they can't see you. A common error, however, is to install a firewall and forget about it. This can be a costly mistake, as they will invariably need some sort of commissioning and configuration. As Steve Kennedy, head of technology futures at internet service provider Thus, says: "Access to a firewall does not make you automatically secure. If you do not lock your safe, anyone can look inside." Learning how to handle that lock shouldn't be difficult, but it will be essential.These are not the only issues to consider. Kennedy also points out that many computers are configured to run as open mail relays, which means no checks are made on incoming mail before it goes out again. This is how junk emailers work, and several ISPs will block them. So if any of your staff work from home and will be using broadband, you could have a problem.Microsoft file sharing should be turned off, he adds, because if it isn't, anyone with a net connection can share your files. "Even simple things like LAN print servers may be vulnerable," says Kennedy. "Ensure they have password protection and preferably are not accessible from outside the network."An attack from a phantom printer may not sound too severe, but just wait until it has blocked up your system with War and Peace on a reel and you need to print invoices.Mind you, you should never forget that the vast majority of breaches of security are connected to managerial rather than technological issues. "The simple matter of a teleworker leaving a company and the details of removing his or her access rights is a good case in point," says Etienne Greeff, professional services director at consultancy MIS Corporate Defence Solutions. The kids playing with the company laptop is another issue, and let's not even mention what happens to the information if a computer is stolen. The answer is simply to have a solid security policy in place that is understood and bought into by all staff.Another issue related to security is reliability. It is a good idea to try to get a service level agreement (SLA) so that if something goes wrong, there is a chance of apportioning responsibility and getting compensated. Installations of any size that are security conscious can be hard to pin down, though."Traditionally, you will have one provider for internet access and another giving you firewall protection," says Greeff. "You need both of these entities working together to enforce an SLA, which is extremely challenging."Just think of how much fun it is trying to get your local gas and electricity boards to coordinate something, even if they are the same company, magnify the frustration by a few hundred times and you get the idea.None of this should put anyone off using broadband technology to grow their business. It's good stuff and having it on the whole time makes life a lot easier. Add a wireless network with a laptop computer into the mix and you have a genuinely portable internet appliance in your hands. It is largely a matter of remembering to apply the same security precautions to it that you would in an office setting, and ensuring that staff understand the need for this even if equipment is in their own home.No such thing as a freebie without a catchHang on a minute, you might say, if you want a firewall for your system and you are a sole trader or very small network of people, there is freeware available fromzonelabs.com, and there is even a firewall in Windows XP. So why worry about paying extra? The reasons are simple:&#183;The firewall in Windows is basic and has two settings: on or off. If you want to do much configuring, you will have to spend some money.&#183;Likewise the free firewall at ZoneLabs. The unpaid-for version is a good firewall, but it won't trace any attempts to get into your system, it won't stop ads or pop-up windows, and any code such Java or ActiveX that tries to run will continue unchecked. If that's OK, go for it!
Counter cultureTheir eyes lit by the glow of the monitor, the investigation team gathered round the computer. On it was displayed a slick website, apparently run by the Far Eastern division of a well-known high street chain.Offering prices as low as half what you would pay in the UK, the site behaved like a well-run e-commerce operation. Customers could place orders using a credit card through a service backed by an international bank. They would then receive a speedy email response confirming shipping details and the goods would appear a couple of weeks later. And the quality would be identical to anything bought in a British shop.Then a few hours after the website had been discovered, it disappeared without trace.   No combination of terms would show up anything on any of the search engines. It was as if the site had never existed.A couple of days later, it appeared again. For a short time it worked normally. Then it vanished. This continued to happen erratically, apparently without rhyme or reason.The team tracking the site is from the Edinburgh-based Brand Intelligence, a company employed by businesses to see how their names are being used or abused online. Its managing director, Steve Leach, explains: "What was happening here was a particularly slick example of a manufacturer selling off 'overruns'. A retailer will order, say, a thousand jackets, but 1,200 will get made and the difference will be sold off."Potential customers for such sites are often recruited through online chat rooms, bulletin boards or newsgroups. It has to remain hidden from the retailers because the manufacturers run the risk of losing both their legitimate and illegitimate business. Equally, retailers do not want the practice to become public knowledge because of the damage it would do to their valuable brand identity. As a result, every action is shrouded in secrecy.For companies such as Brand Intelligence, finding the major pirates and counterfeiters on the web is far from easy. The British high street, for instance, is filled with names such as Gap, Warehouse, Next, Principles, Oasis, Boots and so on. Type any of those words into a search engine and it will produce millions of hits.Other sites, part of what Leach calls the "underweb", will go to great lengths to ensure they are not found by uninvited guests. Often they use variations on what are known as "robots.txt" files.These have existed since the early days of the web for legitimate reasons. Search engines such as Google send out "spiders" to map the web. Sometimes there are pages such as log files, which website owners do not want to be included in searches.Robots.txt files are also used by companies to promote their search engine rankings. Each search engine uses a slightly different method to decide how to rate a site, so these files can be used to direct the spiders to the pages that will give the best results."A paedophile site, for instance, can use similar techniques," says Leach. "It will check the internet address where somebody's coming from and if it is recognised, the user will be directed to a log-on screen. If not, they're sent somewhere else, usually to a quite legitimate site."The techniques Leach and his team use are known as "deep searching". They employ a mixture of commercial programs and software tools they have developed themselves.Using these methods, they can track not just what is happening on the web, but in chat rooms, online forums, newsgroups and bulletin boards through peer-to-peer file exchanges. "The only things online we don't cover are instant messaging and email," says Leach. From this, it is often possible to find out who owns a website, who its bankers are, where it is, how long it has been running and even how popular it is.It sounds like detective work, and it is. In fact, Leach's company has recently teamed up with Pinkertons, the detection agency that coined the term "private eye", and the London law firm DJ Freeman, which specialises in media and technology.Alex Carter-Silk, a partner at DJ Freeman, explains: "What we're trying to do is combine law, technology and investigation to enable corporations to recognise the real risks from the internet. Steve has the technology. The Pinkertons guys are great at spotting patterns. When we've recognised the trade patterns, then we can decide what to do."Much of the intelligence comes from monitoring internet chatrooms. "If you get Igor from Kazakhstan chatting to Sybil in San Francisco, Pinkertons not only knows what the guys in Kazakhstan are doing, they know what the trade route is. Where we come in is that we're able to say whether what they suspect is illegal. It may not be," says Carter-Silk.Some of this trade is counterfeit. But often what is going on is "parallel trading". This takes advantage of the fact that identical goods are sold at prices that differ from country to country. Often resale is perfectly legal.Pharmaceutical companies, for instance, sell drugs at lower prices to poorer countries. If a hospital, by accident   or design, finds it has a surplus of a drug, then there are obvious advantages to selling this on to somewhere the price is higher. This is legal within Europe, but not, for instance, from Europe to the United States.It is not enough to trace one transaction, because the goods may well be shipped on several times before they reach their destination, legally or not. Much of the world's trade in oil, cigarettes, alcoholic drinks and cosmetics follows these convoluted routes. Perhaps as a result, an estimated 10% of the cosmetics and perfumes sold in the world are fake, and 40% of cigarettes are counterfeit.The problem is distinguishing between the parallel traders and the counterfeiters, then finding a country that will take action against them. Carter-Silk divides counterfeits into aspirational - such as watches and handbags - and expectational, items such as car parts that are expected to work. It is often easier to get action against the producers of expectational fakes."Steve's company's trawling skills enable us to focus on people who can be hurt. With some of the Russian mafia,   you'll find that their funds are in Cyprus, for example. Cyprus is a place where you can get a court order and freeze a bank account," says David Reece, vice-president of Europe, Middle East, Africa, Pinkerton Consulting and Investigations.Everything on the internet leaves tracks. Websites may be taken down, but the links to them remain, and every website that can be spidered is stored on the Smithsonian Institute's massive Wayback archive (www.archive.org). And chatrooms are far from   secure. "Crooks generally are not very smart and they don't have access to the latest encryption technology," says Carter-Silk."Once you know where a website is, if people are importing from another country, they create vulnerabilities for themselves because they can be hit for VAT and customs duty. That's the kind of refined approach we can do," says Reece.Political pressure can also be applied. "Even in China, if you're talking about a drug being faked that can have bad repercussions, they are now prepared to sit up and take notice. If it's a handbag that would cost the entire income for a village, then they're not interested."To a large extent, nothing about this trade is new. For years, people have come back from Bangkok and Hong Kong loaded with fake designer clothes, watches and CDs. The difference is that the internet has provided mechanisms, including websites, online auctions and chatrooms, which allow wholesalers and retailers to buy these products without having to travel east.At the same time, the internet creates the electronic tracks for companies such as Brand Intelligence and its partners to follow. "What we're trying to do is turn the internet into a weapon rather than another liability for companies," says Reece.
Our text message poetry competition - which coincides with the 10th anniversary of the first text message sent - enters its final stage today, when all participants will be texted the first of the five poems that reached the short list. They will be sent one poem a day at about 11am for the next five days. They will be asked to give them a mark out of 10 (in numerals) and send them back. This is the only competition of its kind in which the participants are the final judges.The winners and runners up will be announced in next week's Online, together with their poems. The first prize is &#163;1,500, with &#163;500 for second, &#163;250 for third, &#163;150 for fourth and &#163;100 for fifth.Orange, sponsor of the competition, will donate a special award of &#163;250 for the most creative use of SMS shorthand. The cheque will be presented at the company's West End poetry event on December 9.The short list of five was decided by our expert panel of poets U A Fanthorpe and Peter Sansom plus Justine Jordan, books editor of Guardian Unlimited, and Peter Florence, director of Orange Word. They chose the five poems from a longer short list of 100 poems drawn from the thousands of entries we received. Samples from the hot hundred are shown on this page.Dancer cowsalong a high hedged meanderFriesian hoofers pirouette outconga ahead&amp;soft-shoe-shuffle homefarmer quicksteps the gateshut we trip onPress sendfour four fourOnefive five fivesix six sixeight eight eightthree threeOnenine nine ninesix six sixeight eight.I only wish I could presssend...Flat,NYt beige static o sno flurriz eatsdirt color sound n distnce.T sky glues t city on my win-dow.I could add wots missinw a blak pen.MadrigalsThe tenors and the basses dieThe women stitch madrigalsinto a pitch that dogs can hearFor counterpoint an alto goesan octave downSometimes they get a boySleeping patternsFunny how the most snug fitmeans one turns from theother,who reaches out-one loved,one lover.FattyI would like to be big and fatso in winter I could wrap upwarm in my own skinand in summer I could rolldown hillssquashing buttercupsKiwi2 ways 2 eat a kiwi:1.like an apple;2.like a yogurt.IT squaredShes a text poet,I drink Moet,Shes an IT girl,Im an It girl,It doesnt rhyme,But my Dads richer,So I win.Risky businessIt's a risky business selling asecond-hand heart,valeted washed and waxed,looks new,huh?Pray the test drive don 'treveal,more than one carefulowner.I am QuixoteMy body,at work with stillfresh slow fading dreams ofmy own Dulcinea,rusting tines tilted at a Pisastack of pigiron stillages,I am Quixote on a forklift.Be strongJus left th clinicbstrong cheriarm ok no panicneed u 2 promis me2 keep kissinme left breastcos baby nxt weekme right'll b missinSepia portraitI am four years oldsitting astride a benchin a hand-me-down frockwith a Peter Pan collar,a leather cricket ball in myhand.I will NOT smile.ApologyIt wasn't me it was the words.They get into the smallestspaces and cause interrup-tionsTo the smooth running ofconversationsSMSSometimes it's what you don'tsay -and there's so much of it:These hidden messagesthis sub-textThe thoughtWill you give me this smallorange.The thought of it is enoughisn't it?Unbruised unwrappedDark fearMy dark fear as a childwas that I would come homeand my mum and dad would,like my hamsterbe the same but subtlydifferentLift offOne small vibration in myhand.One giant leap in my heart.Drowsy moonThe drowsy moon hangs.Defiant.The sun wears a dazzling little#.Pavements shimmer.Gold.The 9-2-5s don't notice.2magpies roof-hop.Blackwhiteblack...A patternU think there's a pattern.In fone no's,in words,in life.Did her 2nd look mean what ithought it meant?Maybe i'm wasting my time?U think there's a pattern?Stars have goneMy bed's unmade.Curtainsdrawn.I ignore the door.Even the stars have gone.A bottle's empty.Pills in myhand.Holding your jumper.Even the stars have gone.HarmonyIm walking.Theres an oldman on the bus.On the perspex of the sheltern the triplex of the window,our reflections collide nbriefly harmonise.It goes.Saying goodbyeI intend to help her with thecoffin chordin case she drops itat the grave i had to help herlet it goOn the moonIn 69 dad said,when u wed,u'll honeymoon on the moon.Where is moonbase alpha?Now i'm 40+alone i want thestars.TinselA green caterpillar hascrawled from a full bag,lies glittering,stranded on thepavementamongst wet autumn leaves,promise of the cocoon ofChristmasLoversYou left your watch next to mybed.When I stop to pick it up,for a moment I feel the weightof your wrist on my chest.Small thingsUpon finishing a cupcake,everyone knows how to foldup the paper&amp;squeeze the remainingcrumbs flat.Why are only the small thingsso instinctive?Falling for youI'm catapulting polevaultingsomersaultingwhite water rafting hover-craftinggrave robbing heart throb-bingfreefalling caterwaulingkerbcrawlingfalling for youFriday nightFriday night,pub,piss-up,club,mind shagging,laser ecstasy&amp;sex.Beats TV,nodding off,rubbing the scratch-card &amp;losing again.Special brewBridget in her rings and scarvesSometimes borrows a quid forthe bus farePay you back on Tuesdaywhen I get my cheque MeliShe says Special Brew I thinkFor more poems and details of the competition seewww.guardian.co.uk/textpoetry.
Can you remember where you were when the first text message was sent in the UK? I'll give you a clue - it was 10 years ago next Tuesday. You can't? I'm not surprised.Nor can anyone else. In 1992 mobile phones, as mass market consumer products, were on no one's radar screen, let alone text messages. It is worth reminding ourselves that in 1991 a completely unknown company was facing bankruptcy and was on the verge of being taken over by Ericsson of Sweden.The company somehow pulled itself together and now manufactures 36% of the world's mobile phones. Its name is Nokia. It's an unpredictable world and nothing has been less predicted that the rise of text messaging. It was unplanned and came from nowhere to become the fastest growing phenomenon of recent times.Over 2 million text messages are now sent every hour in the UK. The industry claims that 95% of them arrive within 10 seconds "in normal circumstances".Texting has opened up an entirely new layer of communication between people that didn't exist before - brief messages for which there is a huge demand but which don't merit all the ritual attached to a telephone call or the grandeur of a written letter.Texting has become a conduit for flirting, a means for parents to maintain contact with their children, of grandparents bonding with grandchildren, of television interacting with the audience and a marketing tool of huge potential for companies which, for the first time, can build up profiles of individual users and target them with finely honed offers.You can receive news flashes, football results or stock market prices by text message or else play games or vote in elections. There has even (time for a commercial) been a text message poetry competition (www.guardian.co.uk/textpoetry) offering creative possibilities for a medium that is often accused of dumbing down.The downside, though, is an increasing trend of unsolicited texts from companies bombarding phone owners with misleading promises of cash offers. Call it text abuse.Critics say that use of text shorthand - in order to fully use the limit of 160 characters in a text message - will make British spelling even worse than it is. But this may be offset by the spread of T9 or predictive texting which guesses the words you are trying to write.It reduces the number of key inputs you have to make by up to two thirds - but you have to know how to spell the word in the first place. The prize for the year's most impressive use of texting must surely go to Shazam.If you dial 2580 (at 50p a throw) and point your phone towards a radio or juke box playing a record - after a short period you will receive a text message giving the tune and who is playing it.The creative possibilities will be greatly enhanced by the arrival of multi-media phones which enable you to you send ring tones or photos with your text message. It remains to be seen whether texting is a flash in the pan or a permanent feature of the mobile landscape.It certainly chimes in with the primitive herd instincts of humans. Youngsters can now go into town without needing to say exactly where they are going because tribal discussions about what club to go to can be held later by texting each other or everyone else at once.Some people think that, as phones get more capacity, the need to restrict your message to 160 characters will cease and texting will give way to mobile emailing. But this may once again be confusing the medium with the message.Texting has not been successful simply because it enables you to communicate with others by phone without speaking. It has swept the world precisely because it is necessarily brief and no one expects any of the usual formalities (like starting with "Dear") to be observed. Its brevity may ensure its longevity.&#183;Victor Keegan is editor of Guardian OnlineVic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Next time you visit your doctor, observe something remarkable. The GP will carry out most of the consultation sitting at a computer, updating your records as she goes along.Big deal: doesn't everyone use computers at work nowadays? No. If the GP refers you to hospital, the chances are that the consultant who examines you will write your case notes and prescriptions by hand.In the NHS today, almost all GPs use computers in their consulting rooms but most hospital doctors do not.  Although three-quarters of hospital doctors now have PCs with email and web access, only a handful use IT while seeing patients.By contrast, all GP practices, save a few, were fully computerised by 1996;in the brave new world of primary care trusts, even those few have gone. More importantly, these computers are used directly in care, for storing medical records and ordering tests and prescriptions.This contrast in IT usage between professional colleagues working for the same organisation is significant. If Tony Blair is serious about modernising the public services using IT, he will have to overcome it.  But first, we must understand why it happened. An interesting paper in a recent British Medical Journal suggests two basic reasons: one to do with technical limitations, the other with more human factors.According to the paper's author, Tim Benson, a veteran of 30 years of attempting to computerise the NHS, the human factors have their origins in politics.  The NHS began investing in computers for hospitals long before GPs. But it treated the two types of IT very differently. From the early 1970s, NHS accounts classified computers as an administrative overhead, like paperclips. IT staff were graded as lowly administrators and clerks, and their pay fell behind that of private sector specialists.Few senior doctors had anything to do with them or their machines.  When administration and computers became politically unpopular after a series of disasters in the early 1990s,  the government froze spending. "IT investment plummeted and the healthcare computing business was decimated," Benson says.Computers for GPs escaped this roller coaster because they were classified not as an overhead, but as a core component of a GP practice.  More important, GPs had a direct financial incentive to use their systems. They are paid according to the size of their patient list and the number of set procedures carried out, such as vaccinations.Most learned quickly that the way to maximise income was to monitor and control everything on computer.  Hospital consultants, by contrast, have a fixed income from the NHS. Time spent on computers does not increase their income. When they work in private practice, it's different. One of the most innovative hospital IT systems in Britain is at the private Princess Margaret Hospital, Windsor.It allows visiting consultants to call up their patients' test results on the web, cutting the time they need to spend managing clinics. It's a big incentive.  But the gap between hospitals and GPs is not all about money. The second obstacle,  according to Benson, is the difficulty of scaling up systems designed for small organisations such as GP surgeries to hospitals or wider health communities.  GPs work mostly in their consulting rooms, seeing one patient at a time. Hospital doctors work in teams: roaming around wards, clinics,  theatres and offices. GP paper records are concise and structured, and lend themselves to computerisation: hospital records contain the input of many different professions.Benson warns that all this means that the government's dream of integrated care records will not be easy. "On the other hand, we now know that traditional methods will not do the job, so innovation is the only option. "New technology may help,  especially when it comes to using computers on ward rounds. Doctors at the Brompton Hospital in London are already using Microsoft's new Pad computer. But the real lesson after 30 years of NHS computerisation is that the human factor is paramount.  Public sector modernisers everywhere, take note.
A few months ago, the government published a consultation document on e-democracy that identified 2006 as the first possible general election that might involve electronic voting (e-voting) of some kind. Various "new media" voting mechanisms were experimented with in the local elections earlier this year and they did, in some areas, increase turnout.Although, interestingly, nothing like as much as all-postal voting did. All-postal areas had a turnout of 47%, against the national average of 33% and 39% across all pilot schemes. Some might argue that people who can't be bothered to stop in at the polling station but will dash for an SMS on the train ought not to be deciding our futures, but if I could vote on the TV without having to get out of my chair, then I'm sure I would.One way to e-vote would be using some sort of government ID application. This might be loaded into your mobile phone SIM or on to your government ID card. Not that this is likely soon. In the mid-1990s, the UK government was conducting 22 departmental investigations into smart cards but nothing happened, and the barriers have since been compounded by the requirements for strong authentication because of transactional applications (of which e-voting is only one). But let's suppose you could take your e-government card and stick it in your TV to vote, and let's suppose the system was constructed to provide some appropriate form of conditional anonymity. Is this a good idea?It may well be, but there are a number of problems that need to be addressed up front to make this kind of thing a reality. Two of the most interesting are: first, can we actually trust the technology needed to deliver e-voting (especially in the timescales proposed) and, second, "vote harvesting". The first of these is about accountability and auditability. If you vote electronically, how are you to know the election was fair, that your vote wasn't disclosed to third parties and so on? It is this aspect that concerns IT people the most. Voting systems would have to be open for inspection (perhaps even open source) and scrupulously examined. In fact, it is possible to devise clever cryptographic techniques that make e-votes better than physical ones. Imagine being able to log on from your PC and check that your vote had been counted correctly, safe in the knowledge that it was mathematically impossible for anyone else to know it was your vote.On to vote harvesting. In the recent German election, voters were selling their postal votes on eBay, offering to vote for particular parties in return for employment or money. It would be difficult   for some organised group to accompany voters into polling booths and hand them &#163;5 if they voted appropriately but it might be a different story online, especially if the e-votes were transferable (so that proxies could vote for people who were sick, old or computerphobic). You might argue that the internet could provide a transparent and efficient market for votes that would be much more open than our existing system. Instead of a party saying "vote for us and we'll give you a tax cut", they could just give you the money up front.If the technology did work, though, and it was relatively inexpensive, then why would it only be used once every five years for general elections with maybe the odd local election in between? Surely, the marginal cost of running additional referenda and of making more public sector posts directly accountable (why shouldn't council tax payers vote on who is going to be chief of police?) would make this attractive and the technology might then have significant implications.So, when you get an email from the local council announcing there is going to be a vote about building a new housing estate nearby, then the residents would be able to decide whether to sell their vote and take the money in compensation for inconvenience and fall in house price, or whether to band together with other residents and buy votes themselves to defeat the developer.But e-voting and new media might conspire to bypass traditional democratic structures altogether (and I don't mean smashing up Starbucks). If you combine the UK's experience in mobile voting (for Big Brother) with the latest US idea - Fox's cable network is creating a new show American Candidate to allow TV viewers to vote for a "peoples' candidate" for president, who will be funded by the TV company to run in the 2004 presidential campaign - you have the perfect model for electronic democracy in the UK.
The GladiatorsPC £29.99 Arxel Tribe/ Mindscape*****This was one of the most promising titles at the recent ECTS show, and it is refreshing to see some of Arxel Tribe's grand, Gallic ideas living up to their early promise.  The Gladiators is a real-time strategy/role-playing game that is easy to pick up and addictive. It pinches its central ideas from the old Schwarzenegger movie The Running Man and Z:Steel Soldiers.Your commander must fight his way through seven Deathbowl-style arenas, picking up units and fire-power along the way, battling two alien enemies.  Although the levels are linked by brief cartoon cut- scenes, each is self-contained and perhaps unnecessarily linear. Key to progress are Spawn Zones, two or three areas per map that must be captured to allow you to generate more soldiers - all of which you need to succeed.  For although seven sounds like a paltry number of levels,  they are rock hard. Repeated use of the quicksave button is crucial until you know where the enemy will attack from.  When you reach the end of the game, you can replay the same levels with each of the alien tribes, adding considerable replay value.On the negative side, there could be more variety. For example, there are only two maps that allow you to produce tanks, and these are tricky to control. The ability to play off one alien opponent against the other is also under-used:it could have been a unique feature.  Nevertheless, the Gladiators is a bold attempt to revitalise the stagnant RTS formula, and harks back to the age of Robotron, when games were fast, furious and unpretentious. Nicely priced, too.MAStarfox AdventuresGameCube &#163;44.99 Rare/Nintendo*****Zelda: Ocarina of Time is the greatest game. Better than Mario and certainly better than Starfox Adventures, developer Rare's last release on the GameCube. After its recent sale to Microsoft, Rare has produced a pleasing, if flawed,   last hurrah, which pilfers shamelessly from Zelda. This is an epic adventure, full of dungeons and puzzles, and the influences are omnipresent.From basic controls to bomb plants, from currency to crates, Miyamoto's masterpiece looms large. Still, if you are going to borrow, there is no better source, even if the influences aren't fully realised. For example, both games have a main world, sprinkled with large dungeons. But while Zelda rewarded exploration, SFA keeps you on the straight and narrow.Then there is the characterisation. Starfox was previously confined to space battles. Despite a few tacked-on flight scenes, Fox seems out of place in this mainly ground-based adventure. But somehow it works, especially when Fox finds his dinosaur sidekick,   who becomes vital in solving conundrums. Not that these are hard. The puzzles generally are undemanding. The combat, too, is simplistic.Enemies politely queue up to get whacked, negating the staff-wielding mastery your avatar adopts. But, looks matter, and Starfox Adventures is so gorgeous you can't help yourself. From dank dungeon to snowy peak, it's worth playing just to gawp at the view. And therein lies Starfox Adventure's appeal. It is beautiful and undemanding, and sometimes that's enough.GHSplinter CellXbox &#163;39.99 Ubi Soft *****Eight months after its UK launch, the Xbox needs killer games, and Microsoft has earmarked the innovative but faintly disappointing Blinx and Splinter Cell as such.While Splinter Cell will not single-handedly sell millions of Xboxes, it helps. In by far the best of Ubi Soft's Tom Clancy-branded games, you are cast as lone field operative Sam Fisher, of the National Security Agency. A very modern spy, Fisher bristles with technology: along with night-vision and heat-sensing goggles, he has a lock pick, a personal digital assistant, a laser microphone, "sticky cameras" and a camera-jammer.You will need to use them all to prosper, as Splinter Cell is one of the most rigorous and realistic games. The   game's emphasis on stealth - tripping an alarm, or leaving an unconscious baddie's feet sticking out of a dark corner can blow your mission - brings to mind Metal Gear Solid, as does the guiding voice in your earpiece.But Splinter Cell is less frenetic and the tightness of the camera seems to immerse you deeper in the character. Fisher moves even better than Solid Snake, too: he can monkey-climb poles, straddle narrow corridors with a "split jump" and grab enemies from behind, interrogate them, then knock them out with a satisfying bop.At first, the game seems stop-start (wisely, UbiSoft has given it closely spaced save-points) but the unbelievable attention to detail (hanging lights, for example, swing if you shoot them) plus near photo-realistic graphics suck you inexorably into Fisher's world. A churl would point out that you must fiddle with the camera more than is ideal, and the dry cut-scenes are not great. But the Xbox has its first killer game since Halo.  SB
Toys ahoyMummy, where did Barbie come from? And which was the first company to mass-produce teddy bears? The History Channel has scheduled a two-hour programme,   The History of Toys and Games, for next month, and produced an interesting site about the subject. Testosterone-fuelled surfers may find Modern Marvel's Boys Toys more interesting. Flash is obligatory, in all senses of the word.Those who grew up playing with a whip and top may be interested to learn that today's top toy is a Game Boy Advance, according to a vote on Yahooligans! Jade's Funky Fashion Makeover and   the Barbie Camcorder are also desirable. Those looking for present ideas could also consult the Family Fun listing of the best games chosen by various age groups. The voting on the 71 toys that reached the final was done by children at 18 day-care centres in the USA, who spent three weeks playing with them. Old Century Baseball, a pinball machine, proved the most wanted toy.www.historychannel.com/exhibits/toys/www.historychannel.com/boystoys/boystoys.swfhttp://masl.to/?J34D22092http://masl.to/?R16D52092Street siteRuavista - it means "street views" in Portuguese - is a site devoted to street life and "signs of the city". Examples include posters, decorated shop windows, road signs, graffiti, posters and plaques. The webmaster, Marc Voelckel, reckons these provide more insight into real cities than the monuments and   tourist landmarks found in guidebooks. The result is both interesting to look at, and involving, because everyone should feel they can contribute photos. To encourage participation, there's a Photo of the Week section, and the site is holding a photo contest, which closes on December 30.www.ruavista.comTrailsidesThe limitation of the Ruavista site is that it lacks geographical context: there are no maps, directions or compass points, so the photos are merely random views. Pickatrail takes the opposite approach. It focuses on trails a backpacker might follow, with maps and trailside photos. The glamorous stuff includes trails through Yosemite National Park and the Grand Canyon, in the US. However, it also includes a walk on the Dorset coast, and a fairly unchallenging trek along the Victoria Embankment and around St James's Park in London. The site also has an A-Z of placenames with links to maps and other information, and a brief guide to anoraks.www.pickatrail.com/jupiter/features/gear/anorak.htmlGeosurveyYou probably read how American and British children did not know where Afghanistan was on a map of the world, and failed to pick out the Pacific Ocean. Think you could do better? Twenty of the National Geographic's Global Geographic Literacy Survey's 56 questions are online.http://masl.to/?L22D62092Review TVGreat idea for a site: post the titles of well-known TV series and let anyone review them. The hard part is to come: getting intelligent amateur reviewers to take an interest. "Bring back Angus" has many qualities, including brevity, but it's not Nancy Banks Smith.www.tvviewer.co.ukGOSH!From December 1, you will be able to pledge &#163;5 and send up to 50 electronic Christmas cards from the Merry Christmas site, with 80% of the money going to the Great Ormond Street Hospital Children's Charity. Gosh, which is 150 years old, is hoping to raise &#163;100,000.www.merrychristmas.co.ukKids' stuffUCIcinemagic is a lively new website from UCI Cinemas for kids aged from five to 11. Visitors can enter competitions, send e-cards and play a couple of games. The main drawback is that it is all done with Flash, so it helps to have a fast internet connection.www.UCIcinemagic.co.ukDIY portalWhy should Yahoo, Microsoft and AOL have all the fun? Now anyone can launch a portal to make resources available online using the Scout Portal Toolkit. The SPT has been developed by the Internet Scout Project with funding from the Andrew W Mellon Foundation. It is open source code developed with the Apache web server running on Red Hat Linux, and requires a web server with PHP 4.0.6 and MySQL 3.23 or later. The project has been running since 1994, sponsored by America's National Science Foundation. Its function is to inform the American educational community about the internet.http://scout.wisc.edu/research/SPT/download.htmlNew &amp; noted&#183;James Coburn:http://benmont.lib.net/james_coburn/english_top.html&#183;European Young Consumer competition for schoolchildren:http://youngconsumer.eun.org&#183;White House life:www.whitehouse.gov/history/life/&#183;A browser-based spelling checker that will correct Hotmail:www.hotlingo.com&#183;Desk tops:www.snapyourdesk.barkins.com&#183;Thirsty Horse of Mongolia:www.thirsty-horse.comSix of the bestToonsThe Big Cartoon Databasewww.bcdb.comToon Zonewww.toonzone.netJerry Beck'swww.cartoonresearch.comAnimation World Networkhttp://news.awn.com/Toon trackerwww.toontracker.comLinkswww.nonstick.com/links.html
Has profit replaced prophet in the technology world?I like to hope they're engaged in a productive tug-of-war! There have been many innovators throughout the history of IT. Norbert Weiner's (www.digitalcentury.com/encyclo/update/wiener.html) work with cybernetics and mathematics was important. I'll never forget his parting words to me: "I don't suppose we'll ever meet again." I haven't decided whether they were spoken in regret or relief!Does Clarke's Third Law still apply?The 3rd Law was that "any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic" and it applies more so today. If I had any technology in mind when I conceived it, then it was probably the Crystal Set (www.midnightscience.com), which has made a comeback in solid state electronics. Today's perfect example of "magic" is the DVD.What were your earliest encounters with computers?The unfinished Babbage machine (www.sciencemuseum.org.uk/collections/exhiblets/babbage/start.asp) in the London Science Museum around 1936. Favourites would be the HP35 (www.hpmuseum.org/hp35.htm), the precursor of palmtop technology. I had nothing to do with the early Arpanet (www.dei.isep.ipp.pt/docs/arpa.html). The internet feels as if it's always been here!Did the computer change the way you write?Machines such as the old Kaypro (www.obsoletecomputermuseum.org/kaypro/) I used during the writing of 2010 (http://home.golden.net/~csp/reviews/2010file.htm) marked the third stage in my progress from handwriting to typewriter, then to computer. Will voice recognition complete the process?Favourite gadgets?I'm after an eye-mounted video display and such a thing is on the way! I'm looking forward to getting the i-glasses HRV (www.i-glassesstore.com). I'm delighted with the way technology and the net have evolved - I only wish I had more time, and energy, to play with them.Can you envisage the Tablet PC replacing the desktop?It will complement the desktop. However, if voice recognition becomes effective, palmtops may take over. My only contacts with voice recognition were Dragon Dictate (A HREF="www.pbol.com/eloquent/dragdes.html&gt;www.pbol.com/eloquent/dragdes.html") and IBM's ViaVoice (www.ibm.com/software/speech/).Favourite sites?I likewww.cnn.com. I never use chatrooms but I enjoy cybercasting and am involved in one with Chris Long of BBC World (www.bbcworld.com).Visit:http://www.lsi.usp.br/~rbianchi/clarke/
&#183;Starwood's self-consciously hip hotel chain,W Hotels, continues to expand at a frantic rate. The latest W to open is in Seoul, followed by San Diego on December 6. Most of the US outposts are now offering "Wired" rooms with free broadband internet access.&#183;Radisson SAS's new Glasgow outpost bears a strong resemblance to an airline terminal. (The hotel would rather describe it as "imposing"). Still, internet access, proximity to the railway station and an LA Fitness club compensate.&#183;Good news for regulars at New York's JFK airport. The eight-minute AirTrain service to Jamaica Station, which will connect with 740 daily Long Island Rail Road trains and three subway lines, is due to open in early 2003. Journey times to Midtown should be cut to 45 minutes. Boston-Logan, meanwhile, opens a new terminal in January.&#183;If you fly to San Francisco and are still waiting for that long-promised BART link to the city,TransitInfohas a guide to public transport between SFO, Oakland and San Jose airports.&#183;Germany now has its first low-cost airline.German Wings. Tickets to Konrad Adenauer airport, 15km south of Cologne, start at £19 each way including taxes.&#183;Maersk Air, a BA franchise, begins flights from Birmingham to Turin in late December. A typical return fare in January is £117 atba.com.&#183;Buzz's much-vaunted new flights from Bournemouth begin in March and include Belfast, Amsterdam, Glasgow-Prestwick and Paris CDG.&#183;Czech Airlineswill fly from Edinburgh to Prague from March.&#183;The newValueBookagency claims to "simultaneously hit over 35 lowest airfare websites to find the best deal". It is a 9-5, Monday-Friday service conducted entirely by email.
"It's the bed," one businessman confided to me as we obediently removed our shoes on the way to the airport gate. "The food's still pretty crap, and I can live without the TV channels. But I must have the bed." How I envied him as I reclined my economy seat a full three inches and settled down for the long haul from Pittsburgh. The flight - on one of America's struggling carriers - was as poor as the airline.Still, the business cabin was full, despite the rise in fares. An American Express study confirmed last month that business fares are expected to rise 4%-5% in 2003 as airlines try to recoup the cost of their loss-leading fares. (If it's any consolation, they predict hotel rates in the US will fall by 1%).Assuming your company insists on economy - or you run the business yourself and keep costs as low as you can - your only hope is to get a frequent flyer card, dress smartly and pay the full economy fare. "The only way it happens, really, is if you're an executive card holder," says a spokeswoman for BA.Your chances of securing a better seat depend on the class of card you hold. All applicants start with the Executive grade and move up to the Silver or Gold grades as they accumulate flights.If your company has at least five employees who travel on business, it can join theOn Businessreward programme, but this is aimed at those who already buy Club World fares - the free upgrades on offer are to first class or Concorde.Now that BA and Virgin Atlantic have created a "superior" economy cabin (World Traveller Plus on BA, Premium Economy on Virgin), the chances of getting an upgrade from cattle class are even more remote.But if you can persuade the company to pay for a business class ticket on a long-haul flight, how can you keep the cost down? The first tip is to search for restrictive business fares rather than the open variety, whichTravelocitylets you do. Another is to watch out for special offers and try to plan your travel accordingly. Flynow.com always has a page of competitive business fares (£1,975 to Melbourne and £1,569 to Perth were available at the time of writing).The customary advice to be flexible about dates and times usually doesn't apply to business class tickets. Airlines know they can't shift seats by discounting them at certain times - so they don't. But you can still save a lot of money by changing planes at a European hub. A business return to San Francisco via Frankfurt in early December onExpediawas nearly £1,000 cheaper than a direct flight on Delta. Not a bad saving for four or five hours of extra journey time.
It's nearly the end of 2002 and things have been happening. Every company employing more than three people has a website and broadband internet access. We're all trading through internet shops, everybody's delighted with the return on investment their IT offers and I've just taught 15 pigs to fly.In fact, the picture of who's doing what in IT in small business environments is far from clear - every research company and just about every manufacturer has its own idea of where we are.Probably top of the software supplier tree is Microsoft, which has commissioned its own research into who's doing what. "Over the last 12 months, we have seen two key trends in the small business IT market," says Andrew Pickup, small business manager for the company. "These are a significant increase in investment on IT security and rapid adoption of broadband and wireless internet access."These factors have affected buying patterns indirectly as well as directly, explains Pickup. Research quoted in these pages before, from the British Chamber of Commerce, said 7% of companies had been hacked in the last 12 months and 93% had experienced virus attacks."Right now the number one reason for small business moving to the new Windows XP platform is enhanced security and reliability,' says Pickup - attributes that Microsoft also trumpeted about the last version of Windows, strangely enough."More than 50% of small business customers cited this as the reason for upgrading," he continues, "and since Windows XP offers a built-in internet connection firewall it can help small businesses protect themselves against unplanned and unwanted interruptions."The other element cited by Pickup is, of course, broadband, which brings with it a set of opportunities - but also a set of drawbacks. "People are now addressing email overload problems," says Peter Chadha, principal consultant at accountancy firm BDO Stoy Hayward. "Critical problems have arisen over sharing files via email - it multiplies data storage problems, creates version control headaches and no one knows where a file is. Also, people had huge inboxes. IT managers are now addressing this."It is possible to add more disk space, but the better-informed are formulating email policies - including group policies about trivial emails - and forcing people to use the phone instead.Before leaving broadband it is worth bearing in mind its other major drawback - geographical coverage simply isn't there yet. "Rural SMEs hoping for broadband have realised they are going to have to wait a long time," says a spokesman for yet another internet company about to launch. "&#91;That's&#93; hardly a great situation for the small business community, or indeed for Britain, which relies on the success of small businesses." The sound readers can now hear might be that of grinding axes and vested interests, but it's not an unfair point.This is going to reinforce the interest in emerging technologies over the coming year. Mobile communications have been very big news, although only a minority of people use their PDAs to collect email on the move. Bluetooth phones with GPRS connections are making this easier to do and the advent of 3G - eventually - will make it faster. Alternatives such as satellite internet are becoming available and customers are noticing with some surprise that although the transmitters are out of this world, the costs don't always follow.Other elements that characterise the small business market seem to repeat history. Printer manufacturer Epson points to the falling price of quality colour imaging and the increased awareness among small businesses of the importance of a good logo or picture, but also the reluctance to invest in the technology because price perceptions are out of date.And the increased requirement for data storage has increased again. You can only hope that in the coming year things such as document management systems will become more widespread to enable the organisation of the terabytes of information 
that companies are going to have. Remember when that 2Gb PC looked as big as anything you were ever going to need?Other things that were expected to take off have yet to do so in a mass market fashion. BDO Stoy Hayward's Chadha points to application service providers (ASPs) - you remember, the ones who were going to host all of your applications and allow you to log on to your word processor or whatever it was that you wanted instead of having it on your own computer.It's starting to happen in the form of outsourcing. Jeff Meulman, managing director of Via Networks in the UK, has noticed his customers opting for it. "Indeed a Via survey of 151 SMEs' results (September 2002) showed that 'access to skilled personnel' was the number one reason for outsourcing IT to managed service providers," he says.Star Office is attracting a lot of attention. It is certainly not Microsoft Office yet, but certain software companies aren't laughing as hard as they were at it. And given that it has shipped 7m copies since May this year, that is probably wise. IP telephony - phoning through the net and therefore not paying the call charge - is starting to look appealing but is not doing the numbers right now.Where this leaves us exactly is difficult to say, but there are some common themes. For instance, the skills people apply to their new broadband installations need work. Used properly, broadband is a new marketing and trading medium rather than just a means to send the odd email.Overall it seems likely many of the technology issues in 2003 won't be about the technology itself but about managing technology, so that it remains usable in spite of its size and breadth.
After two years of giving out www.samathieson.com for both my email and website address, paying £19.98 to renew the domain name on May 21 seemed an easy decision.The cash was immediately accepted by US-based firm ActiveBytes Software, which trades as Freeparking.co.uk. But from May 30 - the expiry date I'd paid to avoid - email and web-page requests dropped into a digital black hole.For a freelance journalist, a comatose domain name was irritating and embarrassing. But for a shop or hotel relying on web and email for custom, it could have been disastrous.ActiveBytes restored the name on June 27. My bank refunded the credit card-paid fee, but that would not have been much compensation for a month's lost earnings.  Given such problems, it might be tempting for a small business to stick with the name provided by their internet service provider. Freeserve is typical, in giving customers email addresses in the format mail@&#91;yourchoice&#93;.fsnet.co.uk, with a website at www.&#91;yourchoice&#93;.fsnet.co.uk. Spending more just to use www.&#91;yourchoice&#93;.co.uk might seem a waste of money.But, as Guardian Online reported on August 1, Freeserve is considering switching to its parent company's name, Wanadoo. This could include changing customers' email and web addresses, although Freeserve has not yet decided on this.If it does, it won't be the first time. Tiscali, the Italian buyer of LineOne, changed its customers' addresses from "lineone.net" to "tiscali.co.uk".David Bishop, spokesman for the Federation of Small Businesses (FSB), says a domain name change would, initially, be extremely disruptive. "Many small businesses have very limited advertising budgets, relying on word of mouth and repeat business. Any change in email address would make this more difficult."Your ISP-given email address is also vulnerable if a service closes, and it can't be taken with you if you want to move as a result of rotten service. Owning your own domain name is prudent, then, and looks professional, but you must check out the firm that will manage it.The problem with ActiveBytes resulted from an attempt to move registrar (see below) from Joker, in Germany, to one in Australia. Joker required my permission and sought this by emailing only the address used when registering the name in 2000, since abandoned, rather than my current email held by ActiveBytes.Emails to Joker went unanswered or came back with a blank reply, and its DËsseldorf phone number connected to a recorded message - telling me to email. Emails to Freeparking went unanswered for days and then produced replies saying it was "working on it". Its US 1-800 phone number cannot be called from outside that country. Eventually, ActiveBytes settled its row with Joker. But regardless of who was in the right, it would be better to avoid such a mess in the first place.It is safer, and usually cheaper, to use a UK domain name such as .co.uk. The single UK registrar,Nominet, provides a certificate of ownership. Furthermore, it provides ways of maintaining or transferring your domain if you have problems with the third-party name manager.Dr Willy Black, executive chairman of Nominet, says a UK name suggests a local link. "UK consumers feel more comfortable with a .co.uk," he says, quoting internal research. The .co.uk, .org.uk and .me.uk domains can be bought by anyone, although they are designed for UK commercial concerns, organisations and individuals respectively.A non-European firm may be slightly cheaper due to not charging VAT, but that is little compensation when your domain name is down and its phone number doesn't work.For .co.uk, .org.uk and .me.uk, Nominet charges £5 plus VAT for two years. Registrars for the most common international domains tend to charge about £20 for the same period, although it is cheaper if you buy for longer periods. You will pay more, as the name manager has to run systems for forwarding your email and web-traffic.The biggest brands can be the least competitive. Freeserve charges £44.99 plus VAT for two years.London-basedUK2charges just a penny a month on top of the registrar's fee, but only when you buy at least 10 names; any fewer cost 16p a month, which, plus Nominet's charge, comes to £8.84 for two years including VAT. Furthermore, UK2 places a small advert for itself on your web pages. Removing this pushes the VAT-inclusive price to £32.84. However, UK2 does offer free extras, such as data on website visitors and e-commerce services.Hertfordshire firm Advantage Interactive (LowCostNames.co.uk) charges £7.50 plus VAT (£8.81 inclusive) for a basic but advertising-free email and web-forwarding service. It also provides an 0870 helpline, costing 8p a minute in business hours - rather cheaper than the 50p or £1 a minute helplines elsewhere.Some ISPs throw in domain names for free, such as Sheffield-basedPlusNet. Its £19.99-a-month unlimited use package for small businesses includes two free UK domain names, Nominet charge included, as long as you stay with them for a year.Check how much a name manager will charge to renew the name or to release it to another firm. If either charge is substantial - some firms charge nothing extra for these services - avoid.How domain names workThe last element in any domain name is its top-level domain (TLD), of which there are two kinds. Generic international domains (gTLDs) include ".com" ".org", ".net", ".info" and ".biz". The US government and military use ".gov" and ".mil", a legacy of their one-time management of the name system.The second kind are country code top-level domains (ccTLDs). Each country controls its code, although use of such a code does not guarantee that a website is based there.The element before the ".uk", such as ".co", is a second-level domain. In the UK, Nominet makes some available to anyone, but controls the sale of ".ltd.uk" and ".plc.uk" for limited companies, ".sch.uk" for schools and ".net.uk" for ISPs. Other second-level domains, such as ".gov.uk" and ".nhs.uk", are managed by the state and are not on general sale.Further helpHow to stay in control of your domain&#183;Domain names apply to both the web and email. If you own the domain guardian.co.uk, you control the web pages at www.guardian.co.uk and the email sent to anything ending with @guardian.co.uk.&#183;Small businesses will normally deal with a domain name manager. However, the ownership is held through a registrar, which for UK names is Nominet.&#183;There are several registrars for the commercially available international domain names such as .com.&#183;UK domain names are purchased in two-year blocks. International names can be normally be bought in two- to 10-year periods.&#183;You tell your domain name manager where to redirect email and web page requests. This allows you to stay with your current ISP, switch, or divert email if you are travelling, without having to reprint the stationery.&#183;Some services divert all email to a single address, others allow you several, so that "sales@&#91;name&#93;.co.uk" and "support@&#91;name&#93;.co.uk" can go to different places. Some place an advert on your web pages, most don't. Check before you buy.
On our panel of experts this month are: Simon Halberstam, head of e-commerce law at law firm Sprecher Grier Halberstam LLP &amp; Weblaw; Philip Parsons, an adviser for UK online for business in Nottinghamshire; Richard Althorp, managing director of consultancy Sol-Tec; and Lance Spencer, portfolio director of Kingston inbusinesss.If you have a problem you would like to see answered, email it toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk, or post it to Online, The Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER.Mobile costsOur mobile costs are spiralling out of control. How can we get maximum efficiency at a reasonable cost?LS:Top tips to cut the cost of company mobile phones:1) Get all your mobiles from one supplier. Keeping track of your company mobiles can be simplified by using one network provider. This reduces the administrative headache and gives you preferential call rates, instantly reducing your costs.2) If the mobiles are for work use only, implement an official mobile usage policy, but make sure this is communicated clearly and regularly to your staff.     3) Monitor mobile call patterns.4) Don't put temptation in the way of your employees. Use call barring so their mobiles cannot be used for calls that are not work-related.Unexpected attachmentsMy emails keep going out with unexpected attachments - usually something called winmail.dat. What is this and how can I stop it?PP:When you use Microsoft Outlook 98 to send email containing attachments through the internet, some recipients using email clients other than Outlook report that the mail message includes an additional file called winmail.dat. The file is usually very small but cannot be opened in the mail message. The winmail.dat file is used to preserve the formatting the sending client includes in the message but is not recognised by the receiving client. In the case of Outlook, the winmail.dat file includes rich text formatting instructions, which are also used when using Microsoft Word as an email editor. To avoid including winmail.dat, use the plain text mail format. To select plain text for all messages, follow these steps: on the tools menu, click "options" and then "mail format". In "send in this message format", click to select plain text.Domain name dilemmaSomeone has registered an internet domain I think could only refer to my company. What can I do?SH:Without more precise information this is a difficult question. However, I can give you some general information. Unless you have registered a trademark corresponding exactly to the domain name in question, you will probably have difficulties in forcing transfer of ownership of the domain name to you. Having said that, even if you do not own a registered trademark, if you can establish that you have built up goodwill in the name in question, you may be able to force transfer by way of an action based on the concept of "passing off". This is where someone else trades on your goodwill. One of the other important factors will be what domain we are talking about and whom you approach with your complaint.The most common avenue is by way of arbitration by the registry governing the domain name. If, for example, it is ".com", the body responsible for determining the issue and the relevant rules will almost certainly be different from those that apply to a ".co.uk" or a ".biz".e-MarketingI have a small business and have to watch carefully the productivity of any marketing exercise. Direct response advertising and direct mail are too wasteful and expensive; emailshots I can do myself but are only as good as the list one rents, and no one guarantees email list accuracy or individual "relevance". The only real option - eBulletin services - are priced so high that they make emailshots just as expensive as posted direct mail. I thought IT solutions were supposed to reduce business costs and level the cost-competitiveness field between SMEs and big business competitors.RA:You can create eBulletin services yourself by building an e-community. Make your web work - get customers to visit it. Send emails to your registered customer base with product news, promos and update reminders. Collect information from your customers and use login forms to build the community, setting up a brief newsletter with hyperlinks to relevant information to your site. Make sure information and news are up to date to keep the customer at your website. If you have a good database-driven infrastructure to track and monitor visitors, this will also aid you in building an accurate e-community. New technologies like the internet can greatly widen our communications reach and help those messages get to the right people, which is the basis of good marketing.Cutting copyrightI have a new website and would like to put some of the press cuttings about my company on it. They have been published, but where do I stand on copyright?SH:The fact that the press cuttings have already been published and are, hence, in the public domain is largely irrelevant to the question of copyright. Ownership of the copyright in the cuttings will, almost certainly, reside with the authors of the articles or the newspaper that published them. Their reproduction in whole or part on your website will be an infringement of that copyright and will expose you to being sued by the owner. If, on the other hand, the articles clearly indicate that they may be reproduced, which I doubt, there would probably not be a problem. But even then it is possible there would be difficulty, as the newspaper might be authorising reproduction of an article, the copyright in which has been retained by the author. In short, if you want to reproduce the articles without fear of getting into legal difficulties, you should approach the newspaper for permission to do so.Error numbers?I keep getting Windows crashes that don't state what's wrong; they just give me an "error number". How do I find out what's happening and do something about it?PP:It is very difficult to say what may be causing this problem without further information. However, it would be a good idea to check the PC has the latest service packs and hot fixes applied. These can be obtained from Microsoft atwindowsupdate.microsoft.com
Cornwall, like many regions of Britain that once fed the industrial revolution, has had a reversal of fortune. This has been closely linked to the demise of its tin and copper mines and the decline of heavy industry in the area during the last century.Although perhaps now more noted for tourism, Cornwall is steeped in technology. Think Goonhilly Earth Station, the world's largest satellite centre; think the first transatlantic radio transmission from Cornwall to Newfoundland by Guglielmo Marconi in 1901. Also, think the main data pipe across the Atlantic which hits the Cornish coast before making a beeline for London.Now, the county is gearing up for the information age, and looking to harness the multitude of small businesses in the region, courtesy of £12.5m from the EU, local government, education and enterprise. Cornwall has established a consortium of local government and business organisations to promote the widespread use of broadband in the county over the next three years.Actnow Cornwall is a partnership comprising Cornwall Enterprise (lead partner and a wholly owned subsidiary of Cornwall county council), BT, the South West Regional Development Agency (Swerda), Business Link and Cornwall College. Actnow is also the beneficiary of a grant from the EU's Objective One fund."When we first looked at this project, the outlook was that Cornwall wasn't going to get any of its businesses connected to broadband in the foreseeable future," says Nigel Ashcroft, actnow's project director. "We are a rural county, with half a million people and thousands of small businesses. We just weren't going to get any funding for this."Initially, BT was not interested in absorbing the cost and risk of upgrading rural exchanges to service sparse populations, without a substantial contribution from government. In February BT warned that without the government's help rural areas would have to wait for anything up to 20 years for broadband connections.Since then, though, with the help now available to Cornwall, BT has upgraded eight exchanges in addition to Truro, the only one it was willing to overhaul initially. This will increase to 13 exchanges across the county by 2005. In fact, BT has also promised that nine out of 10 people in Britain will have broadband connections within three years, which would be an advance on the two-thirds of the country currently within reach of a broadband exchange.Primarily, actnow provides discounted BT ADSL packages to local small and medium-sized businesses, which can claim full rebates on the connection fee as well as around a third off the monthly BT subscription rate for two years, depending on the package.The project also gives advice and support to businesses for every stage of their online lives, from getting the right broadband package to setting up business-to-business transactions and electronic invoicing.According to Ashcroft, actnow has signed up 2,077 subscribers in the county since launch in April, of which 600 are SMEs. "Our target figure is 3,200 SMEs by 2005," he says. "At our current sign-up rate, that means we will need to sign up around 10,000 subscribers to hit that target."In addition, to qualify for the Objective One funding, which amounted to some £5.2m, the actnow project has pledged to create up to 1,000 extra jobs in Cornwall by 2005 from all the broadband activity generated within the county.  The level of activity so far has also generated interest from outside the county. Stephen Timms, minister of state for e-commerce and competitiveness, has recently visited the project to assess progress and meet a few of the small businesses now online as a result of actnow.France TÀlÀcom has also registered an interest in the project, in particular as a working model of rural broadband service provision from one of its European rivals, as has a delegation from Northern Ireland.Companies that have been attracted to what is on offer include a seven-strong internet marketing agency that relocated from central London to Redruth.The company, Neutralize, helps companies devise and manage their online marketing campaigns. Most of its work is done remotely and would benefit from as cheap a broadband package as possible. "Using the internet to the extent we do allows us to undercut our competition," says managing director and co-founder Lucy Cokes. "Our pricing model is based on the fact that we don't meet our clients."Until April, when actnow was established, Neutralize used an ISDN 2E connection, which cost £150 a month. Now, with a BTOpenworld 1000+ 1Mbit ADSL connection, internet access is faster and cheaper at £79.99 (discounted from £119.99).  "With broadband, all our software processes are running 10 times faster," says Cokes. "It means we can do certain jobs, like running reports on web positioning (scanning search engines and websites to retrieve data related to clients), which used to take a day, in one hour."By paying less and being able to do more with broadband, Neutralize is able to increase its profit margins. It also predicts it will double its turnover next year, from £300,000 last year.With the extra capacity from broadband, there are also plans to add videoconferencing and an extranet website for Neutralize's resellers, adds Teddy Cowell, co-founder and technical director."We are redesigning our network at the moment and will soon take more of our software in-house away from our host, which will give us better communication with our resellers," he says.It is just possible that Cornwall's experiments in broadband will show the rest of the country, and BT in particular, that however remote you are and whatever the local population is, if you build it, they will come.
London mayor Ken Livingstone is keen for the capital's small and medium-sized businesses to make the most of broadband opportunities, and is preparing to take action to boost adoption and awareness levels.Early next year the Greater London Authority (GLA) is due to issue a report highlighting the fact that many SMEs in the capital are still unaware of the benefits of broadband. It will call for government policies in London to focus on identifying the potential benefits broadband has to offer businesses. 
Livingstone has already called for more competitive and affordable broadband access and highlighted the need for London boroughs to identify and support the development of new e-businesses.The national debate about broadband has tended to concentrate on its availability, especially in rural areas. London has the advantage of near ubiquitous availability of broadband services, but the GLA still thinks SMEs need to be reminded of the commercial advantages of always-on internet applications and content."Almost every London home and business has the capacity to connect to broadband," points out a GLA spokesman. "In London, take-up is around 7%, which may be double the national average but is still very low."Policy makers in the capital believe broadband services have a key role to play in the future economic life of the city. Their main argument is that high-speed broadband business connections will improve opportunities for London companies and individuals to collaborate and innovate together to improve productivity levels and attract new business to the capital.The news that the mayor of London aims to persuade more SMEs to upgrade to broadband services has, not surprisingly, been welcomed by ISPs. Brighton-based ISP Mistral, which supplies broadband products to SMEs in London, says that current order levels are healthy."We're hitting targets every month. We're getting loads of broadband inquiries," says Kat McClure, Mistral's marketing manager. She adds, however, that some SMEs are holding out in the hope that prices might come down further. "It's quite a cost-driven market at the moment and because there were some problems initially with ADSL, they are a little bit cautious."Despite the aggressive marketing of broadband, analysts are undecided about the impact the new technology could have on the economic life of the capital or other cities in the UK. "I think broadband can improve the business efficiency of companies. I'm not sure about the evidence of it leading to real economic growth," says Susan Richardson, an analyst for Gartner. "Broadband is quicker. It's more flexible. It does make SMEs more open to new types of services like video or sharing information. It facilitates net meetings with partners and it helps with people working from home."With broadband becoming increasingly fashionable in business circles, politicians are keen to be seen to be associated with its adoption, which could partly explain Livingstone's high profile enthusiasm. "It is the thing to be doing at the moment," says Richardson. "We have started to gain a momentum which has been lacking for the last three or four years."Whether Livingstone's broadband push is likely to have a far-reaching impact remains to be seen. It will definitely stoke the prevailing pro-broadband climate. But in practical terms SMEs in London are probably more likely to upgrade to broadband in response to pressure from their major customers and suppliers.
&#183;Not many businesspeople know this, but their printers contain hard disks. Manufacturer Sharp has been researching the amount of corporate ignorance surrounding the technology and realised that knowledge was low - 46 per cent of companies had no idea any data was held in the device, and had therefore taken no precautions to safeguard it. Product marketing manager Stephen Roberts confirms there are security risks associated with any hard disk and that Sharp is one of the two companies to have done anything active about implementing security - something the company attends to by adhering to standards intended for the military.&#183;Elsewhere in this issue we cover security and virus attacks. These should be taken seriously anyway, but particularly in the light of research from McAfee that suggests 70% of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) have had a computer virus and lost money as a result. The average loss amounted to £843 per company, amounting to £2.1bn overall for British business. Just under 35% of the SMEs questioned - all members of the Federation of Small Businesses - believed a virus wouldn't do any serious harm. Equally seriously for businesses was the fact that 58% of companies wouldn't open an email from someone who had previously given them a virus.&#183;Also on the research front, Orange has joined up with Mori and Real Business magazine to ascertain what small businesses are doing with their technology. Among the research's findings was that 49% said they did not use a word processor package; 54% said they did not have a software licensing package and bought individual software licences for every purchase instead; two thirds of small businesses lacked both the time and resources to find the most suitable services for them and made buying decisions on the hoof; and perhaps most interestingly 50% of respondents used only some of the services for which they paid, the main reason being that they weren't able to communicate the services they had bought to all staff.&#183;Two new accounts packages have been released as challengers in the market for very small business bookkeeping. Dosh Software has come out with the latest version of its Cashbook product, which comes in at £59 including VAT, according to the company'swebsite. People with more limited resources might like to have a look at Omni, a South African-developed product which weighs in at a mighty £9.99; this is for the basic version and extra features can be added and activated for around £2.50 each, depending on what you want the system to do. Further details can be found at www.omniaccounts.com.&#183;Readers whose business is on the medium side of small to medium will be interested to hear that Microsoft is aware that they need their security addressed - so it has put a free security toolkit on the net for download. Available atMicrosoft security, it includes a lot of information, including white papers and case studies, and a lot of evaluation software, which will, of course, include an element of sales pitch. The information and examples of good practice should be well worth having, though.&#183;Sussex-based Early Warning is aiming to help traders who accept credit card payments by launching its web-based database of established frauds. The idea is that youlog onand compare orders to previous instances of fraud and become better alerted to any risks to your business. The company held the service under wraps for a few weeks and signed up a few large customers. It claims that as a result it had already saved £300,000 worth of fraudulent credit card transactions before its official launch.&#183;Proxim has launched a product for generous businesses wanting to share their wireless internet connections with passers-by and visitors. Called the AP2500, it combines Proxim's hardware with software to allow anyone with a WiFi compatible device to share the bandwidth in the host building. Initially this may seem more philanthropic than businesslike, but any executives and traders who have visited client premises for any length of time and have had to rely on their mobile phones for email communication (or simply go without) are sure to welcome the move.&#183;The police are being given more powers to combat software theft. In future police forces will be allowed to search and seize unlicensed software, following amendments to the 1988 Copyright, Designs and Patents Act which came into effect on 20 November. The proliferation of CD-writers is understood to have made the problem of software piracy considerably worse, and the software industry is suffering a loss of revenue as a result.
Although the trade in counterfeit products over the internet is a major problem for global brands, it is certainly not the only threat they face.Across the internet there are thousands of sites where companies and their products are discussed. In many cases, the companies being talked about in great detail have no idea it is going on.More specific are protest, or "sucks", websites, which provide an uncensored way for people to complain about powerful individuals and organisations. Sometimes they can act as a conduit for misinformation, such as the rumour that Kentucky Fried Chicken had changed its name to KFC because it had bred an artificial creature with no beak, feet or feathers which, therefore, could not be called a chicken. Fake financial news has appeared on bulletin boards, placed by competitors, disgruntled former employees or others out to make a quick profit. The golf club manufacturer Callaway, for instance, found that its share price was falling as the result of 163 postings in a Yahoo! discussion group that turned out to have come from a rival chief executive.Hackers will often deface corporate sites for the kudos or in protest. Most embarrassingly, the Recording Industry Association of America was hacked recently. It has been very active against file-sharing systems such as Napster. Its website was altered to read: "The RIAA wishes to apologise for its heavy handed manner."Mirror sites often look real, such aswww.sydneyopera.org, which was listed for several months on search engines. Its owner sold tickets for the opera house online and it was not until the buyers turned up for the show that they found out they had been duped.More often, mirror sites are used to direct unsuspecting surfers to porn. A similar tactic is now being used by people who are buying up domain names that   have expired, but which still have high search engine rankings.The biggest, and best-known, threat from the internet is the distribution of pirated copies of copyright material. An estimated 10 million English-language book titles can currently be downloaded. Every Hollywood movie is available online before its release date, often in DVD quality. And if you are a Robbie Williams fan, you could have got his new album weeks before its official launch date.
The Mac Edition story (next item) ishere.
Mac Editionreports on the continuing friction between Apple and Quark, which produces the XPress software that the Guardian uses, along with many other newspapers and magazines around the world, to produce its pages. Quark has been dithering for some time on getting an OSX version of XPress out, and according to an outburst by Quark CEO Fred Ebrahimi last week, we shouldn't be holding our breath.Mac Edition reports that Ebrahimi told guests at a meeting in New York: "'the Macintosh platform is shrinking," and that 'publishing is dying.' He suggested that anyone dissatisfied with Quark's Mac commitment should 'switch to something else,' although he insisted that making the move to Adobe's long-Carbonized InDesign package is 'committing suicide.'"Meanwhile, aThinksecretreport on reported new features in InDesign 3 has been pulled at Adobe's demand... it's not been cached on Google, alas.
Amnesty International today called for the release of at least 33 people jailed in China for using the internet to share their views.The London-based human rights group's report on state control of the internet in China, published today, identifies a new category of dissident - those jailed for so-called "online subversion"."Everyone who is detained purely for peacefully publishing their views or other information on the internet, or for accessing certain websites is a prisoner of conscience and should be released immediately and unconditionally," Amnesty International said.Louise Vischer of Amnesty's China research desk says that the 33 detainees listed in the report are likely to be a mere fraction of the real number of people held for expressing their views online. Fourteen of them are members of the Falun Gong spiritual movement, which was banned by China in July 1999, while four are members of the China Democracy party."Three &#91;of the 33&#93; have died in custody; two of them are believed to have died as a result of torture, and a third as a result of suspicious circumstances," she said.The spread of the internet in China has been phenomenal; the Amnesty report quotes predictions that the nation will take its place as the largest internet market in the world by 2006. But such growth is set against the China's strenuous efforts to restrict its citizens' access to the web.Amnesty claims that China employs some 30,000 "internet police" to monitor its citizens' behaviour online. It also details some of the 60-plus laws regulating internet use brought in since 1995, including the death penalty for those found guilty of using the net to provide "state secrets" to foreign individuals or organisations.These rules are applied in a three-pronged approach - blocking and filtering websites, bulletin boards and search engines, and closing internet cafes. A fire at an internet cafe in Beijing in June 2002 prompted the Chinese government to close 2,400 of the city's internet cafes for safety reasons. Amnesty International is concerned that the fire was used as "a pretext to crack down still further on freedom of expression in China."Those internet cafes allowed to remain open use filtering software that "prevents access to 500,000 foreign newspapers, websites promoting Falun Gong, democracy and human rights, and others which are considered "reactionary" or otherwise "politically sensitive"."China's attempt to block access to the search engine Google in August this year illustrated how it was trying to keep tabs on what the Chinese public viewed online. Following an outcry in China and around the world, Google is now available again, but searches for certain key words such as Taiwan and Tiananmen are still blocked, according to Amnesty.Amnesty also reports claims that foreign firms have been supplying China with the technology to censor internet users under the country's "Golden Shield" project, under which "a massive surveillance database system will reportedly provide access to records of every citizen"."Amnesty is concerned that foreign companies may be contributing to human rights violations by providing the technology - the hardware and software - that censors and restricts freedom of expression," Ms Vischer explains.Asked about the Amnesty report at a regular foreign ministry news briefing, Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Kong Quan said he had not seen or heard of it. But he noted that China is a nation governed by law."In the past, Amnesty International has published a lot of groundless reports," Mr Kong said. "We handle cases according to law."Amnesty said the 33 imprisoned were tried in secret and sentenced mostly for subversion. They include:- Huang Qi, a computer engineer from the southwest province of Sichuan whose website was used to criticise the government. Mr Huang was arrested in June 2000 and charged with subversion, but no verdict was ever announced.- Jin Haike, Xu Wei, Yang Zili and Zhang Honghai, members of a Beijing political study association who posted articles about democratic reform. They were put on trial in April 2001, but no verdict was ever announced.- Qi Yanchen, a freelance writer from the northern province of Hebei. He posted articles calling for political reform on the Internet and, in May 2000, was sentenced to four years for subversion.- Li Dawei, a former police officer from Gansu in western China who downloaded articles from Chinese democracy websites based overseas. He was tried in 2001 on subversion charges and sentenced to 11 years.
It was the day the computer guy came to connect my modem that I found out my baby was dead. I had been tired, dreadfully tired, all weekend. By the time he came, on Monday, I could barely stand up and I had lost my voice. I tried to sit beside him as he fiddled with my password, but had to lie down. I rang the doctor, and said, without even having thought it, "I haven't felt the baby move today."I had already rung once that day and been dealt the usual sedative platitudes fed to pregnant women - "It's perfectly normal" - but the receptionist didn't say that; she said, "Come in straight away." So I looked in on the computer guy, who was tapping away on my keyboard, and said, "I have to go out for a minute. There's something wrong with my baby."Sitting in the waiting room of the ultrasound clinic, I put my hand on my mother's arm and said, gently, as one might to a child, "You know that the baby might be dead." I still don't know how I could have said that. My baby's dead. My baby died. I had a baby that died. The words were as unbelievable then as now.I knew it could happen. My second cousin Naomi died of pre-eclampsia with her baby still in her womb. She was seven months' pregnant and she had had an ideal pregnancy until that day. I knew unnatural death, too. My first boyfriend, Blake, was killed in a car accident when he was 22. His preternatural beauty and brilliance lent a false logic to his death - we sang Vincent by Don McLean at his funeral - but I learned then, after two years of crying, that things didn't make sense.It was when the radiologist said, "Are you going back to see Dr Grey?" that the silence weighing on me buckled, and I knew.I rang my friend Tessa and told her my baby was dead. Tessa is a midwife. I met her 10 years ago in a hotel in Australia when I was in a band. I went to hospital the next day. Tessa came in an hour or so after I was admitted. I knew that if I kept looking at her smiling face, I would be OK. She showed me how to make the bed-head move. "Bed goes up, bed goes down," she said, quoting Homer Simpson.Losing a baby is very different from other kinds of deaths. It is a physical mourning, a bodily grief. One carries about oneself a constant, palpable absence, like wearing an empty knapsack. It is a diminishing experience. It makes you weak, depressive and slightly agoraphobic.And it is terribly lonely. You are ostracised from the world of pregnancy and of motherhood - pregnant women and new mothers are the first to shun you - and you fast learn that it is unwise to discuss your baby or your body with anyone. To do so is to invite them to say the wrong thing. What has happened to you is unimaginable, and so, unwittingly, people say the most grievous things.I was so shocked the first time I walked down a street not pregnant and someone bumped into me. Pregnant women are hallowed beings for whom crowds part, cars stop, strangers smile. But just as a pregnant woman is a sacred object, so a mother of a dead child becomes an object of fear, a pariah. She is the embodiment of every pregnant woman's worst phantasms; she is a living death.It wasn't until six weeks later that I went online. I typed in "stillborn", and found my group. It is a board where mothers of stillborn babies write letters to one another. It was the first site I found and I have never gone anywhere else since.Over the next year, I spent countless hours weeping and laughing into the green glare of my computer screen as I read missives from Karen and Carrie and Shannon and Sharon, from Myrna, Nina, Rebekah, Cindy, Mindy, Jodi, Julie, Jan and Justina. I loved these women fiercely, wholly, and we poured the love we could not give our dead children on one another. We were all in the sorrowing no-man's-land between having had our babies and trying to conceive again, a nowhere in which time is measured by ovulatory cycles and trimesters, birth days and death days. So, while we talked obsessively about temperature charting, we also talked about our babies, our husbands (there were no single or gay mothers) and our grief. Our intimacy was forged in words, tears and endless descriptions of cervical mucus.Months went by before I realised that what I was doing was participating in a self-help group. The grief of a mother may be inexpressible but it is also encyclopaedic, and our project was the communal articulation of our experience. We came to share one another's language, to speak a common tongue. Reading my later posts, I barely recognise myself: I lost the "I" of writing and could only write in the corporate voice that we had become. "Reading your response was like talking to myself," was a common refrain. Soon, there was no "I": we had become one person.Well, almost. Insincerity, I discovered, is a vital component of female friendship, and the capacity of women for becoming one another - for empathy - often arrives at a loss of self. I developed irrational dislikes for certain members, and equally irrational fondness for others. I was astonished to find myself feeling pangs of envy - that Sharon did not reply as warmly to me as she did to Shannon, that everyone fussed over Jennifer as though she were a child, that Maureen all of a sudden stopped replying to my posts - and, worse, to find myself competing for the affections of the other women. As much as I wanted to be understood, I wanted to be liked. I would stare aghast at the screen in these realisations, appalled by my petty playground jealousy, my vanity. The screen may be a window, but it is also a mirror.I loved Karen best, and I loved her straight away. She always managed to say exactly the right thing, and her voice to me was one of pure reason and pure love. I wrote for Karen and read for her responses; I had made her my ideal correspondent. But I loved Karen as much for her perfect punctuation as for her kindness and wisdom: I had fallen in love with her literacy.Because our relationships were comprised entirely of words, I had made the mistake of confusing articulateness with goodness, literacy with eloquence. It was often the less literate writers who were able to speak the most clearly. "I am so depressed all the time I feel like a dead person inside a living body," wrote Shannon, and I was riveted by the rightness of her phrase - it hit me with all the force of a cliche realised.Last summer, Tessa and I often met to go swimming. We sat in the sun chatting and looking at all the different shapes of women - the stubby middle-aged Russians, the rake-thin teenagers, the jelly-thighed new mothers - and, among everything else we talked about, Tessa would tell me about the deliveries she had done that week and I would tell her about what was happening with the women in my group.One noon, as we were sitting looking out to sea, I felt two small hands on my shoulders and heard a little boy say, beseechingly, "Mummy". He had mistaken me for his mother, who also had short dark hair and a black swimming costume. I could feel his wet lips on my ear, and I didn't so much hear as feel the absolute trust and intimacy of his small voice, deep in my body. For one second, I knew what it felt like to be the mother of a living child, to live in the world of motherhood.There is a line to be crossed and, at a certain point, the highly unnatural activity of spending all day writing to people you have never met becomes ordinary. But after spending four or five hours thinking and writing to all the day's correspondents, realising that the day had, in fact, gone, the evanescence of my friends, of our link, would strike me, and I would fend off the thought that our bond was as fragile as the lives of our children, and as random as their deaths. I knew it couldn't last, that our friendships were ephemeral and, quite literally, insubstantial. That which bound us would pass, and we would be drawn back into the cycle of life, some of us with children, some without.I rarely post nowadays. I don't know anyone in the group any more; almost all my friends have moved on. Recently, Kate gave birth to Krystal Rose, LeeAnn to Trevor and Angie to Tanner Christian. Karen and Carrie are pregnant, Karen courtesy of IVF, Carrie of Clomid. Shannon has disappeared. I lurk occasionally, but the tone is not so thoughtful, the women seem more cavalier. It took hundreds of thousands of words to get to know my friends, and I don't seem to have the heart to invest in the new crowd. Disconcertingly, a couple of months ago, the site hub crashed, and all our archives are now irretrievable.On the anniversary of my baby's death, I went with Tessa to where he is buried. It is such a long drive there that arriving always comes as a small shock. A dog had shat on his grave. I didn't mind; at least it was compostible. The grave is near the curb of a road and the earth in which he is buried is unnatural, full of asphalt and bitumen. Tessa had brought some white roses, which she placed over the dog shit. The day before, Tessa had asked if I wanted her to come with me to the cemetery and I had dithered, not wanting to presume on her kindness. But then I realised that she wanted to go - he was her baby, too.The only answer to radical loss, said Rabbi Fox at our baby's consecration, is radical love. And there I think of Tessa. I stop, stilled by the thought of her grace and beauty - I can still feel her gentle midwife's hands pressing my abdomen, still see her dear face as she brought my son from me. Out of love, from friendship, Tessa made the worst day of my life the most miraculous thing.There is a grease-stained fingerprint on the top right-hand corner of page 199 of my edition of Mozart Sonatas. It is Blake's fingerprint: he had turned the page for me while I was playing and he was eating fish and chips. I think of him sitting beside me every time I play K&#246;chel 333, and I remember how I snapped at him for blemishing the page.Blake has been dead for 15 years now. Apart from that fingerprint, I have an old pyjama top and a gingham shirt he loved, but they have not smelled of him for years. I have a few photographs. But I also have a small suitcase of his letters, letters to me. His mother burnt my letters to him, thinking that I didn't want them, that she would preserve our intimacy by destroying them. He died again the day she told me she'd burnt my letters; it was the end of our conversation.My baby did write to me, a long black line down the middle of my torso. It, my linea nigra, has faded now - has been rubbed off; there are crumbly remnants in my belly button. How proud I was of this tattoo - it was his message to me, his love letter. My memorial, my love poem to my dear little baby, is thousands of words floating in cyberspace. Everlasting words, inaccessible, in links that are now lost.&#183;This is an edited version of a piece that appears in Gas and Air: Tales of Pregnancy, Birth and Beyond (Bloomsbury). To order a copy for £7.99 with free UK p&amp;p, call the Guardian book service on 0870 066 7979.
Now his name can open doors, and even studio bank vaults, but Kevin Spacey confesses that for most of his career they were slammed in his face."I know what that feels like, and I never want to forget it," he said yesterday. "I was lucky, I was an actor. If you are a writer or a director, you can't even audition."Last night the Hollywood star, a long-time champion of new writing and theatre, launched a website to give novice and wannabe film-makers a forum for their work to be seen and discussed by their peers. Spacey said he was driven to create the site - TriggerStreet.com - because there were so few outlets now for fresh talent. All of the leading Hollywood talent agencies had dispensed with their talent spotting divisions, he claimed, and fear of litigation had stopped most actors and directors accepting unsolicited scripts."So many of the great and successful plays and films have come from nowhere, unsolicited in manilla envelopes from unknown writers. How are they to come through now? My Big Fat Greek Wedding is the latest one, but not everyone gets that lucky. I wanted to reopen that door," he said."For all the money that is made in film-making, so little is spent on finding the next generation of great film makers. But it would sure be great if they took some of that money and took chances on people, because nine times out of 10 it turns out to be worth it."Spacey said that he hoped to force the William Morris Agency into reopening its talent scouting arm, but admitted the fear of legal wrangles had left many wary."When you sign up &#91;to the site&#93; you have to abide by the rules, which are tightly drawn, so there will be no stealing of ideas. It is purely a forum where people can get constructive criticism," he said.Spacey insisted that the site was not there to feed him with good parts. But his production company, Trigger Street, will have an option for 90 days on scripts and films voted into the website's top 10.In the fortnight since the site went live in the US, 800 screenplays and 450 short films have been posted, attracting in excess of 13,000 reviews. The website will also stage short film festivals three times a year, to be judged by Sean Penn, Ed Norton, Mike Myers, Billy Crystal, Cameron Crowe, Danny DeVito, and Tim Burton.Spacey also declared that he was dying to appear again at the Old Vic in London... just as long as the government put its hand in its pocket to find some money to help fix the roof.
Alan Kay, essentially the father of modern desktop computing, has joined Hewlett-Packard. Kay worked at Xerox PARC (Palo Alto Research Center) where the graphical user interface, laser printer, and Smalltalk object oriented programming language were developed in the 1970s. He was later a research fellow at Atari, then spent a dozen years at Apple, the company that had hired researchers from PARC and come closest to implementing his ideas. Apple's finances hit the skids and he moved on to Walt Disney Imagineering in 1996. Today, Kay is perhaps best known for imagining the Dynabook (Dynamic Book) as a personal digital assistant. Apple borrowed his thinking again for its Knowledge Navigator mock-up, and the same ideas surfaced most recently in Microsoft's Tablet PC initiative.
The Aberdeen Group is stirring it up, as consultancies will, by highlighting security problems with open source software. It claims,here: "Open source software is now the major source of elevated security vulnerabilities for IT buyers. Security advisories from Cert for the first 10 months of 2002 show that open source and Linux software accounted for more than half of all advisories. The poster child for security glitches is no longer Microsoft; this label now belongs to open source and Linux software suppliers."Internet Weekhas reported the story.It is, of course, hard to believe, but there are reasons to be concerned. In particular, one thing we know from research is that the more people use a program, the more bugs they find. Get 500 million people to pound away at something for umpteen hours a day and they will uncover a lot more bugs than 5 million people. Maybe Linux is less buggy than Windows 2000/XP, but at this point, there is no way to know for sure: it has never been subjected to anything like the same kind of stress testing. If Linux were to sustain the same level of attack as Windows today, there is no guarantee it would survive. The hope is that, by the time its user base grows to the same level (assuming it does), most of the bugs, holes and security glitches will already have been found.
News.comreports on US internet service providers (ISPs) considering bandwidth caps to deter file swappers, who hog (they say) all the capacity with their film and music-exchanging ways.The music and film industry would love to see bandwidth caps, of course, as it would prove something of a barrier to piracy (even if lots of people, who do this kind of stuff at work, or university, wouldn't really be concerned). It might be less of a good idea for the broadband business, the appeal of which is based largely on the fact a meter isnotticking, unlike some forms of dialup access. And it would mean the user, again, ends up paying to see spam and irritating pop-up ads.Of course, the US internet industry could follow the example of my local broadband provider, NTL, which simply gets so slow in the evenings I stuggle to get my email. Downloading a pirated copy of the latest Harry Potter movie, should I feel so inclined (andshould it exist) would require throughput beyond my wildest dreams...
The government today issued its annual encouragement to shop online over the Christmas season, offering sensible advice to those hoping to avoid crowded high streets or order presents from abroad.Mori research released alongside the safe shopping advice found that about a quarter of the UK population had bought something online in the last year - roughly the same number as Mori found in November 2001. Concerns about credit card fraud and data protection have decreased this year, and less than 1% of respondents reported being victims of fraud themselves.However, many respondents said they were wary of shopping online because they could not see, touch or feel the goods they were buying, an objection that no amount of safe shopping advice can address.Melanie Johnson, the consumer minister, said today: "Shopping on the internet can be safe if you follow a few simple rules. Our research shows that consumers have greater confidence in the safety of online shopping than they did a year ago. Our checklist for safe internet shopping aims to help dispel lingering fears about the safety of buying goods on the internet."The government advised shoppers to use sites recommended by trusted sources, take down company phone numbers and postal addresses, and keep all email correspondence and order forms.The Mori research also tracked orders from abroad. The US ranked as by far the most popular online shopping destination overseas (68%), followed by France (24%), Spain (17%), Hong Kong and Italy (each 9%). While shoppers appreciated lower foreign prices, some were held back by concerns over the potential problems in purchasing from abroad.The government responded today by emphasising a European extra-judicial network for cross-border redress of consumer issues and improved international cooperation against cyber-criminals.
FromThe Washington Post: "The U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis has seized nearly 100 student computers suspected of containing illegally downloaded music and movies, the toughest action yet in higher education's struggle against the trading of copyrighted material over colleges' Internet servers".
... at least, according to technology research company Gartner.Reutersreports today that the joint partnership needs to come up with some strong products over the next few months - in time for the huge CeBIT show in March - if it is to prevent a "devastating" decline in sales. Already, sales of handsets have dipped to 5 million in the third quarter, against a combined 8.5 million Sony and Ericsson phones in the same quarter last year, pre-merger. This is hardly the kind of form needed if the company is to fulfill its ambitious aim of being the world's top mobile phone company by 2006.This news should be of particular interest to Mac users, because Apple has partnered up with Sony Ericsson to develop Bluetooth applications. The most interesting speculation over January's MacExpo that I've heard centers on the potential for new devices born of this partnership, or involving Bluetooth. But since I've predicted it here, it's almost certainly not going to happen now. Sorry.
Of all the new technologies vying to provide extra bandwidth and services, digital radio seems to have been competing with the quietest voice. Digital audio broadcasting (DAB) may have been on air for nearly three years now, but the promise of extra services such as data, text, pictures and even video has so far remained elusive. But with DAB's fortunes seemingly on the up - pre-Christmas sales of digital receivers are set to double the 60,000 already sold - network operators are starting to investigate the possibilities of delivering more than just audio and text using the medium's extra bandwidth or data channels.Two weeks ago, consumer electronics manufacturer Goodmans launched what it termed the first mass-market digital radio range offering portable and in-car CD/radio units for as little as £100. Last week Pure, one of the first digital manufacturers to come to market, said demand for its sub-£100 Evoke digital radio was outstripping supply. At the same time US motor manufacturer Ford entered the digital fray, saying it would offer DAB in-car radios as a standard extra across its range from early next year. While set and car manufacturers are concentrating on the audio benefits of digital - hiss free, automatic tuning and near-CD sound - what's exciting most commercial network operators is the potential for new subscription revenues from data channel services. UBC, which, in conjunction with GWR, launched the self-styled "world's first" digital radio data service Digizone 18 months ago, is just one of several UK operators which has developed an electronic programme guide (or EPG). Like the TV equivalent, a digital radio EPG provides "now and next" information alongside a more detailed guide to programmes, schedules and presenters."One of the issues we have in London is that we've got 50 different radio stations," says Matt Honey, managing director of UBC subsidiary Unique Interactive. " If you are using a digital tuner you have to scroll through all the different stations to find the one you want. With an EPG you turn on the radio and immediately pick up what channels are available, then click on that channel and see a highlight of the day's schedule. Then you could click on a particular programme and the EPG would tell you more about it or record it or store it as a favourite. It's like having the Radio Times online. We believe it will become the gateway to the world of digital radio." Capital and Chrysalis have already licensed the software, "and we are talking to all the other major groups", Honey adds.GWR, which has also developed its own EPG software, is taking the quest for new revenues one stage further. Despite warning that radio revenues were "as volatile as ever" last week, GWR chief Ralph Bernard said the company would still be investing £4.5m in digital activities. Alongside GWR's £1.3m investment in Pure parent Imagination Technologies - a move designed to foster the development of a licence-earning low-cost digital radio chipset - the radio group has earmarked £400,000 for a pilot study that is using digital radio's data channels to broadcast content and information to mobile devices.It's here, in the realm of so-called data-casting, that digital radio's built-in extra capacity starts to make economic sense. Rather than use the expensive 3G bandwidth to send information, GWR and other radio companies say mobiles could be equipped with a DAB chip and digital radio's data channel used to get text, pictures and even video to phones, then the 3G network used as a return path for interactivity. With digital radio multiplexes capable of sending data at rates of up to 250Kb per second - virtually double the realistic estimates of 3G rates - the theory seems to stack up. But it's a theory yet to gain acceptance from telcos and mobile operators. "The mobile operators fear digital radio because it's a threat to the outbound services over mobile airways and that's half of what they paid £22.5bn for the 3G licences for," says one senior mobile executive, who asked not to be named.Radio groups such as UBC and GWR, however, say they are talking to mobile operators and that some sort of tie-up is inevitable. "Most of the mobile companies see digital radio as complementary because it allows them to broadcast from one point to many simultaneously," says Simon Ward, GWR's director of digital and new media.UBC chief executive Simon Cole is equally bullish. "Economically and technically the best business model for mobile data is to have a DAB chip in a 3G phone. You then have a broadband broadcast outpath - on which you can send video clips and photos to everybody at the same time - for example at the end of a football match - and then you could use 3G for people to forward those on to other people and interact." Yet, as with 3G and broadband, as well as the plain old internet, digital radio still faces the content conundrum. What services exactly will people pay for? Here, few radio operators are prepared to stick their necks out. Must-have content they can't get anywhere else, seems to be the prevailing wisdom. "Consumerdemanded information and entertainment content," adds GWR.Existing services, such as the UBC/GWR joint venture Digizone, offer a mix of ITN news, a Cartoon Network games service, weather and additional information on Classic FM and Core. The BBC's Vision Radio provides a similar mix of news, weather and sport. But both are PC-based and free and - with so many competing entertainment/information platforms - how successfully commercial operators can translate them to a mobile, subscription model is anyone's guess. "I have a model that on a subscriber rate of £2.99 a month with 100,000 subscribers will make me money. The question is, what is it that 100,000 people will buy and what device will they get to look at in on?" says Cole.With radio operators concentrating on getting audio services up and running and digital radio manufacturers focusing on shifting first generation units off the shelves, the prospect of mobile data-channel services still looks a distant one. Only when, and if, handset manufacturers start equipping mobile phones with DAB chips and manufacturers start putting hard-drives and bigger screens into digital devices are datachannel services likely to become a commercial reality.
Prediction is difficult, especially about the future. However, Mike Langberg had a go in 1992, and 10 years later, he has gone back toassess how he did. Meanwhile over at the Palm Infocenter, Mike Cane has11 Palm-centric predictionsfor next year. Since Cane got 75% wrong last year, I would not bet money on the results, but they are certainly interesting.
If you were one of the 18 people who received e-mail from me timed at 23:30 on 23/11/2002 (UK time) then it came via a Sprint pay phone at Las Vegas airport. Heading for the gate for a flight to Phoenix, I just happened to spot that a Sprint public pay phone had an Ethernet port on the side. Which is not to claim I am eagle-eyed: an American Comdex visitor had a boat-anchor of a notebook PC attached to it at the time. Said American kindly let me use his CAT5 cable (mine was in the hold), so I plugged into the power socket and Ethernet, got an IP address, dropped in a quarter and did an e-mail synch. Actually I dropped in two quarters, since the price was 25c per minute, but as no PRs had sent me any huge attachments, one would have done. Ethernet-to-payphone is a great idea and something I will look for in future. The whole episode took me back almost 20 years to the days when I regularly used pay phones to send e-mail, though at that time it was via a 300 baud (300bps) acoustic coupler....
It has been a search engine, a shopping channel, an information provider and has even tried its luck as an ISP; but now AltaVista has decided it is, after all, just a search engine.In a back-to-basics about-turn performed earlier this month the company has stripped away the extra services it had been adding to its original search site over the past seven years.There could have been no franker confession, from what had once been seen as a rising star of the net, that in posing as a portal it had spread itself too thinly and compromised its appeal as the early adopter's search engine of choice.Now, instead of a vast array of links and buttons that had tried to convince users they need visit no other site to discover the net, customers are faced with a plain keyword search box above a selection of headings (such as "Motoring" or "Travel") that provide links to advertiser's sites.If its spartan appearance seems reminiscent of Google, that's for the   very good reason that the web's most popular search site, that started out as a project at Stanford University in 98, is firmly in AltaVista's sights as it attempts to claw back the high ground it conceded when trying to diversify."The relaunch is all about us getting back to being the number-one search site on the web," claims Kevin Eyres, general manager of AltaVista International."So, yes, that means we're gunning for Google for top spot. We've listened to what people would want, if we are to regain our leadership in search, and it's a simple site that gives the best results."Eyres is not blind to the irony of one of the rising stars of the early net years spending tens of millions of pounds launching and promoting additional services only to realise that it was best at offering what it had started out with, a simple search-only site."There've been a lot of hard lessons learned by a lot of companies over the past few years," he admits. "I guess, if nothing else, it shows that we're a survivor and that we can at least now see that our strength is in our technology providing the best search experience - which is where we started out."The extent to which AltaVista has fallen from grace is underlined by the latest figures from Nielsen//NetRatings that shows its UK and .com versions are only at number 23 and number 30 respectively in a top 30 chart of the UK's most visited search and portal sites for October.Conversely, Google the meteoric search star is clearly the nation's favourite with nearly half of active users visiting the site. So strong is its appeal that it is only beaten into second place by the giant portal MSN.Hence AltaVista's latest move to strip away everything bar search is not only being widely seen as an attempt to make up lost ground on Google but also as a confession that it could not take on the huge portals at their own game.Rebecca Ulph, a senior researcher at Forrester, believes the demise of AltaVista was evident to any observer well before it got to the stage of an embarrassing and expensive u-turn. "It was clearly trying to be a jack of all trades by putting just about everything it could on the site," she says."The trouble was, there were only ever going to be a couple of winners in this battle. Everyone else, like AltaVista and Lycos, were always going to be left having to reinvent themselves. It makes sense for AltaVista to concentrate on its core competency of search but it's lost so much ground now to Google it's very hard to see how it can make it up."Eyres counters talk of an unbridgeable gap, claiming AltaVista is working on an 18 to 24 month timeframe to catch up. He claims the site's salvation will be its "refined" search technology, but admits the days of multi-million pound advertising campaigns are not now a possibility for a cash-strapped company."We're expecting word to spread by mouth and across the net that AltaVista is the best place to make   sure you get what you want from the net. It's a process of clawing back users bit by bit, month by month."Google claims not to be worried about AltaVista's latest relaunch, predicting that any high-profile search activity on the net raises awareness for the whole sector.David Krane, director of corporate communications, believes Google can still maintain its dominance because, although it has recently added a news service, it will remain focused on search and is continually working on ensuring it offers the widest, quickest searches available. "With 3bn web pages, 400m images and tens of millions of non-HTML pages we're the largest search engine on the net," he boasts.These huge numbers, built up while AltaVista was battling it out in the war of the portals, will ensure nobody will be able to touch Google, Krane maintains.For the portals AltaVista was trying to take on, its move back to search marks the end of a two-year dog-fight they are glad is now well behind them.Martina King, managing director of Yahoo UK and Ireland, maintains it has been tough but has left the main players with a loyal audience. "It's been a hard couple of years but we've come out the other side with 54% of the UK online," she says."We succeeded as a 'destination' site where some didn't because we kept tight control over our expenditure and made sure that we offered very rich and deep content."Still, even Yahoo is not immune from the Google effect. "One of our ways forward now is to concentrate on search," King admits. "It's a reaction to the market that is demanding more relevant search results. So we're working hard to make sure our software can realise what people mean when they type in a search term."For most observers the fact that AltaVista has given up the portal battle and gone back to its roots is not a surprise. In fact, it is a long-awaited move that, although embarrassing, could ultimately save the company whose parent, CMGI, recently reported a drop of almost 40% in net revenue during its last financial year.This contrasts with Yahoo which has been in profit in the UK for the past three years and globally for the past two quarters."AltaVista wasn't very good at being a portal, and being involved in that war was hugely expensive," says Tom Ewing, a researcher with Nielsen//NetRatings."It made them confused over what they were doing at just the time when Google was starting its massive rise in popularity. Then it tried to be a flat-rate ISP but didn't have the telecoms deal in place to be one, so that really damaged its brand. In fact, it's still trying to get over that debacle even now. I can't see them making much of an impact on Google because in the UK, at least, that would mean growing tenfold."That may not matter quite as much as it seems because I think they've realised that it's a lot cheaper to be the number two search engine than it is being among the second tier of portals. That was a very expensive battle AltaVista knows it's well out of."
Wall Street firms are facing fines of at least $1bn (&#163;640m) for misleading investors with biased research during the dotcom boom.The major financial companies, which include Citigroup, Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and Credit Suisse First Boston, were thought to be locked in final negotiations with investigators from the regulatory bodies last night.Sources close to the talks hope a settlement will be reached early next week following a range of investigations led by Eliot Spitzer, the New York attorney general, as well as the securities and exchange commission, the New York stock exchange and the national association of securities dealers.Wall Street firms face accusations that the upbeat advice given by their analysts to encourage investors to buy shares during the dotcom boom did not reflect their true opinion.The accusation is that the analysts inflated their recommendations on shares so that their investment banking employers could earn lucrative business from the companies whose shares were being touted.Merrill Lynch, whose analyst Henry Blodget was one of the best-known bulls of the dotcom boom, has already agreed a settlement with Mr Spitzer that required it to separate its research division from its investment bank. It also paid a $100m fine.According to the Wall Street Journal, the fines now under discussion would hit Citigroup hardest with a settlement in the region of $500m.Citigroup's investment banking arm, Salomon Smith Barney, has been the subject of attention because of the views expressed by its telecoms analyst Jack Grubman.The Wall Street Journal also disclosed that CSFB would be fined $200m with other firms such as Deutsche Bank, UBS and Lehman possibly facing fines of about $75m each.Morgan Stanley denied other reports in the US yesterday that it had failed to properly maintain internal email records sought by regulators as part of the investigation."We have produced close to 400,000 pages of documents, including more than 200,000 pages of emails and email attachments," Morgan Stanley said in a statement."Any focus on email production at this late date is a complement red herring," it added.During the investigations, the contents of emails from other firms have been made public and appear to show analysts questioning the quality of their own advice.In some of the emails that have been made public, largely by Mr Spitzer's office, Mr Blodget is portrayed in an embarrassing light. He is said to have described internet company 24/7 Media as "a piece of shit" in an internal email despite having the stock on an "accumulate" rating.Mr Spitzer's office was not immediately available for comment.
