"Toshiba Corp plans to announce a new laptop model next week that allows users to watch TV on it without having to boot up the computer's Windows operating system—the first in what analysts say will be a new crop of multimedia notebooks to come," reportsAP."Called Qosmio, (koss-me-oh) it will be Toshiba's first laptop to fully integrate audio and video features, including a bright, near TV-quality display, DVD drive, TV tuner, and enhanced speakers. A user could click on the TV with the laptop's remote control or watch a DVD movie without having to go through the all-too-familiar process of starting the accompanying Windows Media Center operating system."
Cable and Wireless accused ministers, regulators and BT of hampering competition in the high-speed internet market and allowing Britain to fall behind Europe.Chief executive Francesco Caio told a parliamentary inquiry that C&amp;W was unable to offer enough new services because of BT's stranglehold on the market."Sadly, BT's retention of some 70% of the market is not testimony to innovation and entrepreneurialism but to its ability to frustrate and stifle innovation among its competitors," he said.Mr Caio said that Telecom Italia's rival in Italy, Fastweb, had cabled 200,000 homes and was offering high-speed web access, unlimited voice calls and video-calling through digital TVs to neighbours for a monthly fee of about &euro;80 (&#163;53).He said the broadband market in France had become one of the most competitive in Europe, and Britain had lost its position as a pioneer of telecoms liberalisation.&#183; Mr Caio praised new regulator Ofcom.
Egg, the internet bank majority owned by Prudential, is pulling out of France to try to entice buyers for the remainder of the business which has been up for sale since January.Shutting down the French operation will cost Egg &#163;113m, taking the total amount of money invested in the ill-fated French venture to &#163;280m.Egg was ordered to close the French business by Prudential, which has been unable to find a buyer who was prepared to take on the French business, which had expansion plans. Egg said: "Prudential has ... advised Egg that the (sales) process has progressed to a stage at which it has become clear that no potential purchaser has the appetite for the investment required to deliver the French business plan..."Prudential insisted yesterday that it "remains in discussions regarding a possible transaction" even though the City believes that the sales process has stalled.The insurer announced on January 14 that it was in discussions about selling its 79% stake in Egg and two weeks later said it had received "unsolicited indications of interest" from other potential bidders in the Egg business.Six months on, a deal is yet to be sealed despite speculation that bids have been received from companies such as Royal Bank of Scotland, Capital One and MBNA.Prudential refused to be drawn on how much longer it expected the sales process to take and how many bidders remained interested in Egg, which was floated at 160p in June 2000.Egg's shares slipped 0.25p to 150.75p yesterday while Pru's shares rose 2.5p to 451.5p. The protracted sales process has led Egg to set its annual general meeting for July 26, the latest date possible to comply with regulations.The annual meeting for 2003 is, unusually, taking place after Egg's interim results for 2004 which are scheduled to be released on July 22.The French business is expected to take 18 months to close and will mean 450 job losses. Egg, which is in talks with the French works council, insisted the cuts would be handled as "sensitively, respectfully and efficiently" as possible.The 113,000 customers of Egg France will be helped to transfer their business elsewhere, Egg said.Prudential denied the sales process was taking an unusually long time. A spokeswoman said Pru had been forced to conduct the sales process in public because the movement in Egg's share price in January had forced it to make an announcement.
"Worried that cyber cafes are turning into dens of truancy and breeding gang violence, Los Angeles City Council members Wednesday unanimously voted to regulate about 30 businesses where teens and others congregate to use computers," reportsThe Los Angeles Times."The new regulations, which are expected to go into effect later this summer, require cafes with at least five computers to eliminate closed booths, install security cameras and bar minors during school hours to prevent truancy."The cafes must also apply for police permits, much like strip clubs and other adult businesses. Businesses that allow teenagers to play video games during school hours, smoke or gamble could lose their permits and be forced to shut down."
"Sony Corp expects to show off its latest PlayStation at the E3 trade show next May, it said on Monday, increasing pressure on Microsoft Corp. to take the wraps off its Xbox successor at that time. Sony's game-business head Ken Kutaragi said it planned to unveil a playable version of the new console at next year's E3, the annual video-game trade show scheduled to take place from May 18 to 20 in Los Angeles," reportsReuters."Next year's E3 could be the stage for a showdown of new home consoles from the industry's main hardware makers, including Nintendo Co Ltd, which has pledged to take the wraps off its new game machine, codenamed Revolution, at that time."
"A Microsoft employee working on the world's largest software maker's search initiative was arrested last week on charges that he stole source code from the AltaVista search engine two years ago, authorities said on Friday. Laurent Chavet, a former AltaVista employee, was charged with accessing the company's computers in 2002 after he was no longer employed by the Web search provider but before he was hired by Microsoft, according to an FBI affidavit in an indictment issued by the U.S. District Court of Northern California," reportsReuters."Assistant US Attorney Chris Sonderby, chief of the Computer Hacking and Intellectual Property unit in Northern California, would not comment on whether there was a separate investigation into whether Chavet used any AltaVista technology at Microsoft. 'The indictment does not pertain to Microsoft,' Sonderby said."Comment:Computer Hacking and Intellectual Property orCHIP? [warning: audio may not be considered "office friendly"]
There is no stopping the onward march of the mobile phone. There are already more than 40 separate functions built into mobiles - though not all at the same time - ranging from calendars and calculators to MP3 players and cameras. Many of them, like the diary, are not used because they are not user-friendly. The best example is the ongoing popularity of the wristwatch, even though it is redundant since every mobile knows the time. But gradually the phone is beating down consumer resistance.This year camera phones have come into their own and as they get even better they will probably capture a huge slice of the digital camera market, and maybe dominate it. MP3 players, enabling the downloading of music or audio books, are also gaining in popularity. Some pundits predict they will never have the coolness or capacity of Apple's pioneering iPod, or one of the numerous rivals trying to knock it off its perch. But memory capacity in mobiles is rapidly expanding and component parts are still shrinking in size. It may only be a question of time before the phone swallows the iPod (or vice versa).Soon manufacturers will start to persuade us to watch television on mobiles. It is already happening in Japan, Korea and even Norway, where the public broadcaster NRK has a 24 hour a day service. Last year BBC Worldwide did a deal with Vodafone allowing users to download excerpts from Fawlty Towers. Miniature television sets have been around for decades, but have never caught on, partly because people don't like carrying multiple devices around. But what if the TV is bundled into the phone? Engineers are working on the main obstacles. Screen technology is improving and so are ways of extending battery life as TV screens are extremely power hungry. The cost of watching mobile TV is also very expensive. If mobile television makes it to the big time it will not necessarily be conventional television recycled. New companies dedicated to mobile reception may emerge. Stand by for a thorny debate about whether mobile TV watchers will need a licence.
"A series of highly publicized security vulnerabilities found in Microsoft's Internet Explorer Web browser may be having an effect on the browser's market share, according to data compiled by WebSideStory, a San Diego Web metrics company. Over the last month, Internet Explorer's share of the browser market dropped by 1 percent, the first noticeable decline since WebSideStory began tracking the browser market in late 1999," reports IDG News Service."A loss of 1 percent of the market may not mean much to Microsoft, but it translates into a large growth, proportionately, in the number of users running Mozilla and Netscape-based browsers. Mozilla and Netscape's combined market share has increased by 26 percent, rising from 3.21 percent of the market in June to 4.05 percent in July, [Geoff Johnston, an analyst with WebSideStory] said."
"Imagine a company that controls more than 80 percent of its segment of the cell phone market and has 40 percent of the digital camera market. Now it wants to expand its reach in consumer electronics. Many would consider it predatory--even a monopolist," says aCNetcommentary."Somehow, though, Cambridge, England-based ARM just doesn't give people the willies the same way behemoths like Microsoft or Intel do. You'd be hard pressed to find anyone spouting 'ARM is evil! EVIL!!!' in a chat room."
"The European Union's antitrust chief [Mario Monti] said Thursday that he would open an inquiry into whether TV, music and sports operators are unfairly keeping their content from new media providers," reportsAP."Monti said his office would focus on the provision of content — music, films and sports — over the Internet for such new services as video on demand. He singled out broadcasters and pay-TV operators who 'acquire rights for delivery of content' for technologies, such as the Internet, that they aren't even active in."
"A survey of 3,600 Internet users in eight countries showed that as many as 50 percent had downloaded copyrighted content in the last year. Of those people who have downloaded films, 17 percent said they are going to the movies less often, and 26 percent said they bought fewer DVDs, according to online researcher OTX, which conducted the study in partnership with the MPAA," reportsCNet."The trade group did not have box-office sales figures for 2004. But global movie admissions were down by 4 percent in 2003 to about 1.57 billion, compared with 1.64 billion in 2002, according to research provided by the MPAA."
It reads like an advertisement for computer security firms - or a condemnation of their products.A global survey of IT professionals, published today, shows computer hackers and viruses attacked 92% of British businesses over the last year - despite increased spending to stop the problem.UK magazine Computing and its sister titles surveyed 7,000 technology and security professionals in 40 countries for a global information security survey.Researchers found many businesses were not following best practice security advice, but that most intended to spend more money in an effort to combat the problem.Across Europe, the survey showed that 57% of businesses planned to spend more on computer security this year, compared with 30% in 2003.However, Computing reported, one third of UK companies did not include email usage guidelines in their security policies, while only 44% included details about appropriate web use. Just 40% provided security awareness training.Security was not just a case of explaining to employees why they should not open dubious-looking email attachments. The survey found that flaws in operating system software were the most common reason for virus and worm attacks.Perhaps unsurprisingly, researchers discovered a certain amount of anger that software makers did not take legal and financial responsibility when a flaw in their products resulted in a security breach."Vendors' products aren't secure enough," Peter Pedersen, the chief technology officer at interactive betting firm Blue Square, told the magazine. "It's very rare that users can claim for any losses incurred. Users are just left to accept software at face value and, if it doesn't do the job, then it's tough."Patching has become a particular concern for businesses, because no IT department wants to be caught out by failing to fix a hole that a software provider has already warned about.Often, a software company discovers a hole in its product, posts a fix for it, and then, weeks later, a virus exploiting that flaw infects thousands of users.This happened with the Code Red worm, which exploited a glitch in Microsoft's IIS software, and the SQL Slammer worm, which took advantage of a hole in the Microsoft SQL 2000 server."Every business needs to be clear that viruses and hacking are now a fact of life," Computing editor Michael Gubbins said."All business policies need to understand the nature of those threats. We believe government and industry bodies could play a big role in making everyone aware of the dangers and best practice intervention."
Phil Gyford is not a name that trips off the tongue alongside those of internet visionaries such as Jeff Bezos, Sergei Brin or Larry Page. For Gyford's business - if you could call it that - is not big, and it doesn't make headline news. He would probably be the last person to describe himself as a guru, but Gyford has made a real mark on the net.An unassuming freelance web designer by day, by night he's an amateur agitator, an unpaid online inventor with a track record of qualified, but recognisable, innovation. Gyford's wide range of pet projects combined with his no-nonsense approach to the net, continue to draw admiration from casual surfers and web experts alike.His latest project,TheyWorkForYou.com, was launched last month with the intention of bringing parliament closer to the British people. With a team of almost 20 volunteers, Gyford helped build the site, which provides information on members of parliament and a readable version of Hansard, the parliamentary record."There's lots of interesting stuff," he says, explaining the motivation behind the site. "But it's so unappealing to read the Hansard site. For example, there's no way that webloggers can link into it. Presenting it in a readable way was something that had been talked about a lot before, but never done. We started making plans for it last August or September, but we probably started working on it properly just before Christmas."The system was a prime example of a collaborative, voluntary web project, building on the work of existing sites includingFaxYourMP.comandPublicWhip.org.uk. "They had all the clever stuff," admits Gyford. "On top of that, it took about six months of us all working part-time on the project."Gyford's ambition, though, is to build useful websites, not to cover himself in glory. He believes voluntary projects benefit from a lack of the bureaucracy that can make commercial projects so difficult, and if Hansard came up with an official version to compete with TheyWorkForYou, he would be among its first supporters.Another of his most prominent sites,PepysDiary.com, already has him signed up for the long haul. An online version of the famous 17th-century journals of Samuel Pepys, it started as a side project to help Gyford plough his way through the voluminous diaries. With little fanfare it became something of an overnight sensation, drawing thousands of readers every day and developing a large community of seasoned web surfers, enthusiasts and academics. But running the site is not an enterprise for the weak-willed. Pepys - like his 21st-century counterpart - was an insatiable worker, and completing the day-by-day project will take Gyford almost a decade."It hadn't really bothered me until it launched and everyone kept telling me what a big commitment it was," he says. At the O'Reilly Emerging Technologies Conference last year, Clay Shirky, the respected web expert, said that he realised weblogs had a future because of Gyford's 10-year commitment to the Pepys site.He seems taken aback that others might look to him as a shining example as what is good about the internet, but his admirers are legion."Phil's one of the few people in this industry who produces much more than he promises; the complete opposite of the loud new media bullshitter," says one friend. "He not only has the savvy to understand and build complex projects ... but the motivation to see them through and keep them going for years."Testament to his dedication are Gyford's other long-term creations such as Byliner, a service that helps surfers keep track of their favourite journalists, and Haddock, a collaborative site that, he says, was "probably Britain's first weblog". Some of his ideas could - and probably should - have been taken up by commercial organisations. But he got there first, with a plain-speaking style that appeals directly to web users more used to self-serving guff and unfulfilled promises.Part of this approach could be down to Gyford's background. He trained as an illustrator, and his web   skills are essentially self-taught. It's a throwback to the earliest moments of the web, when anyone with a good idea and some guts could give it a try. Over time, the dotcom industry - built on self-motivation and innovation - has conspired to trade in those qualities for sensible business models, shareholder profits and professional training. Gyford, however, has remained a jack of all trades."Quite a lot of the people I know who make websites came to it from more of a design angle, rather than science," points out Gyford. "It brings up an interesting skill set, because they've got a combination of design   and coding. As new media gets bigger, all those people at the start who were called webmasters - as everyone who could do a bit of everything was - have had to pick one discipline or the other."A survivor of the can-do ethos that fired the dotcom revolution, his early days as a self-confessed "alpha geek" were with the short-lived UK version of Wired, the technology magazine, followed by spells working for Capital Radio's online operation, local information site UpMyStreet and a number of web design and consultancy firms.Perhaps the strangest move in his career was a year-long stint in Houston, reading a master's degree in studies of the future."I was tired of the London new media scene," he says. "I just wanted to do something completely different."But what does his own future hold? He says he doesn't have any new projects in the pipeline - enough of his time is taken maintaining the ones he already has on the go."Something like PepysDiary only takes a couple of hours a week," he says, modestly. But even a couple of hours a week mounts up over the course of 10 years. "I could always pass it on to someone else, I suppose, but I'd like to see it through."
"A US inventor has come up with a hi-tech way of allowing the deceased to talk from beyond the grave - by fixing video screens to their tombstones. Robert Barrows says people could leave video messages before they died, to be played to friends, loved ones or the just plain curious from the grave side," reportsBBC News."Mr Barrows, of Burlingame, California, has filed a patent application for his design of a tombstone that can accommodate video equipment operated by a remote control. 'You can go from grave to grave and click on anything that person wanted to say before they died,' he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme."
Entrepreneur Steven Esrig has "initiated a trademark infringement action against Google, alleging the Mountain View-based company is trespassing on turf that rightfully belongs to a small children's Web site calledGoogles.com, reportsAP."The site revolves around four alien creatures created in a 1991 book by Steven A. Silvers titled Googles and the Planet of Goo. The book spawned a kid-friendly Web site, Googles.com, in July 1997 — two months before Google registered its domain name, according to a complaint filed Tuesday with the US Patent and Trademark Office."
Of all the inventions that made the modern world, few are as little celebrated as the government form. Like the British Rail sandwich, government forms are a national joke. Unlike the British Rail sandwich, they still exist.Forms have improved over the years, thanks to a lot of prodding from plain-language campaigns. But they don't seem to be getting smaller: one third of departments' forms are more than four pages long. If you're applying for a welfare benefit, you're likely to be hit with something between 16 and 20 pages. Seven benefit forms are more than 25 pages long.The figures come from an inquiry by the House of Commons Public Accounts Committee, which says it's time to simplify matters.E-government opens the possibility of "smart forms", which display only fields that fit a citizen's circumstances, and which point out inconsistencies and omissions. Even better, electronic forms can be pre-filled with data already held by a government agency, saving time and reducing the risk of errors. The committee urges departments to "demonstrate greater commitment to meeting the government's 2005 deadline for the online provision of all forms".Submissions from agencies quizzed by the committee show how far we are from this dream. The Department for Work and Pensions admitted it was not confident of meeting the 2005 target, but said it was "trying to get as many forms online as possible". It had no idea how many people would use them.The Passport Service, which has been testing a smart online form, confessed it was not trying to promote take-up as the online form costs more than paper applications to process. Only about 2% of applicants use it. Part of the problem is that, as applications need to be accompanied by original supporting documents, the process cannot be fully automatic.The Inland Revenue was asked why it didn't pre-populate annual tax returns, as in Sweden, and allow citizens to OK them by email, or text message.Not possible, said the revenue. First, it would need expensive changes to IT systems. Second, there's an administrative hurdle. When employees receive their self-assessment forms, the first thing they have to fill in is their employer's details, their salary and   how much tax they paid last year. Surely the revenue knows this already, from employers' returns? No. Employers don't have to file their returns until early summer, after the end of the tax year. The law requires self-assessment forms to be sent out in April.The revenue said it is now working on pre-populating online forms as employers' returns come in.Despite such efforts, the impression from the committee's report is that departments are more interested in putting existing forms online than in using e-government to improve the experience. This is a tragic waste. A bad government form is just as much of a joke on the web as it is on paper.&#183;Difficult Forms, House of Commons Public Accounts Committee, 26th report 2003-04.www.parliament.uk&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address    published, please say so
Pass go and collect your &#163;200. The gaming world just got more interesting this week, when Internet Gaming Entertainment (IGE), the leader in real-world sales of virtual-world objects, opened the first foreign exchange market for games. From this week, gamers playing Everquest will be able to swap their hard-earned Platinum for the currency of Star Wars Galaxies, Ultima Online fans need not feel their hours of gameplay were wasted when they decide to move over to Camelot or Lineage 2, and the citizens of Final Fantasy XI can exchange their hard work for the equivalent in Second Life.Let's step back a second. Massively multiplayer online role-playing games (MMORPG), are one of the biggest, fasting-growing areas of the internet. Millions of players worldwide pay monthly subscription fees, and log hours online to control characters in enormous computer-generated universes. One of the most popular, Lineage, has four million players in South Korea alone. They explore, trade and fight their way through the games, choosing roles to play and building their own niches within the game universe.Everyone starts these games at the lowest level and must trade and fight their way up. As players spend an average of 20 hours a week playing, a market in higher level game characters - plus the in-game objects, weapons, treasure and suchlike - has grown up. You can buy Ultima Online and Everquest characters on eBay, for example, with higher level warriors going for nearly $1,000 (&#163;546).Some people even make their living   trading, using eBay, Paypal and, more recently, specialist online brokerages to buy and sell their virtual-world objects for cash. Reports of individuals making $30,000-$40,000 a year from game playing are not uncommon.So popular are these games, and so widespread the trading, that Edward Castronova, Associate Professor of Economics at California State University, Fullerton, was able to work out the GNP of the Everquest game, based on the internal wealth creation converted into real world cash at the market rate. The 450,000 inhabitants of the Everquest world - called Norrath - make up the 77th richest nation on the planet. Norrath's GNP, of $2,266 per capita, is bigger than India or China, and nearly as big as Russia.And so, until now, a player wanting to switch games but retain a similar level to the one they had spent perhaps hundreds of hours playing, would have to either invest another great wad of time, or a lot of money. Enter Internet Gaming Entertainment. IGE is the largest game object brokerage today. Brock Pierce, one of the founders, says it has, at any one   time, close to $1m in virtual inventory, stored in virtual warehouses, in out-of-the-way places within these virtual worlds. It claims to trade "several million" dollars' worth of built-up characters, weapons, treasure and other in-game objects every day.Based in Florida, it has another office in Hong Kong that provides 24-hour technical support and trading, and has been in business for three years. The most common customer, Pierce says, is the cash rich but time poor, who will buy a game character that someone else has spent the necessary hours building up to a respectable level.The new venture, the currency exchange, is slightly different. There needn't be any real world cash involved, but established players in one game can directly exchange their time investment in the game for something similar in another game.This is very tempting: a recent survey of MMORPG players found that many spent more than six hours a day living within their chosen virtual world. Many of these are not playing to make money, real or otherwise, or to level-up their characters, but for those who are, being able to take their booty to other universes may well be a great service.Either way, the line between the virtual world and the real one just got more fuzzy. For example, 500,000 platinum pieces on the Everquest's Antonius Bayle server is freely convertible to 525,000 Gils in the Caitsith server of Final Fantasy XI. That same amount of Everquest platinum will also go for $425, in more conventional money, and the price is going up. George Soros, it seems, could well be in the wrong business.Links  A virtual fortunehttp://x.ige.comwww.everquest.comwww.lineage2.com&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so
Phishing againThe security industry went into overdrive two weeks ago with the discovery of a new "phishing" attack on Microsoft's Internet Explorer for Windows. Download.Ject (aka JS.Scob) worked by adding JavaScript code to web servers that exploited two security holes in IE, one of them not patched. The script tried to download a variant of the Berbew/ Webber/Padodor Trojan from a Russian website. Use the command line to search your PC's hard drive for kk32.dll and surf.dat to find out if you have got it (seewww.microsoft.com/securityfor details). This is unlikely: it turned out that the web code only infected servers running IIS v5.0 if they had not been patched against the Sasser worm (see MS04-011), and the Russian website was taken down the next day.At the time, there were three main options: turn off JavaScript, install the Windows XP Service Pack 2 (only available in beta test form), or use a different browser. To turn JavaScript off in IE, go to Tools|Internet Options, click the Security tab, click the button marked Custom Level, and scroll down to Active scripting. However, so many websites use scripting that this is probably not a useful option for most people. It's always handy to have an alternative browser, and I frequently recommendMozilla Firefox. Regrettably, many of the sites where security is important, such as banking sites, will only work properly with IE.Microsoft has now produced a temporary workaround, which is to turn off the Windows feature (the    ADODB.Stream control) used by the exploit. This "configuration change" is now available atwww.microsoft.com/securityor via Windows Update. AutoUpdate users will already have it. Microsoft is still working on a patch for IE, so similar attacks remain a possibility. Microsoft therefore recommends that users increase their browser and email security settings:www.microsoft.com/security/incident.Confused OutlookHaving recently bought Microsoft Office 2003, including Outlook, I thought it would be useful to keep track of my family's activities via their calendars, as I can do at work. However, this appears to work only for users with Exchange email accounts.Ed BywaterJack Schofield replies:Exchange Server is Microsoft's solution for multiple PCs, and while quite good value, is not going to attract many home users. Microsoft has two alternatives. The first is to save or publish each person's calendar as a web page (search Google for 257984). The second is to use an MSN 9 online service, Office Outlook Connector for MSNwww.msn.co.uk/premium/, which is expensive.Of course, there are third-party options. For a guide, seewww.slipstick.com/outlook/share.htm, and for calendars in particular,www.slipstick.com/calendar/olpubcal.htm. However, your best bet is probably to use an online service such as Calendars.Net. Since you already have Yahoo accounts, I'd go with Yahoo calendar sharinghttp://help.yahoo.com, synchronised via Intellisynch.Sunbird, theMozilla Calendarproject, is also promising. However, the site says: "Although it is quite stable, we recommend it for testing purposes only." In any case, use the internet's iCalendar cross-  platform standard, defined in RFC2445 in 1998 as a replacement for the old vCalendar format. Apple's iCal also follows this standard.No DSOI think I have picked up some spyware called DSO Exploit, and I cannot remove it with SpyBot.Dave J ReidJS:If you have a patched system, it's very unlikely that your PC has DSO Exploit. However, there is a bug in SpyBot, which means it can find this exploit repeatedly and apparently fail to fix it. For details of how to enter the correct value into the Windows registry, see theSpyBotforum.Backchat&#183;Linda Mitchell asked about new technology for students in higher education. Julie Mitchell (no relation) mentions some "hiccups" in my advice. Re recording lectures on a Tablet PC, she says: "Check with the lecturer - most do not like having their talks recorded on any medium." Re scanners, she adds: "Be aware that many libraries are happy for you to photocopy books, but the use of hand scanners in libraries is often frowned upon and the British Library will revoke your reading card if you try using even a pen scanner there." Julie also recommends two websites,JStorfor journals andProject Gutenbergfor classic texts.&#183;Kirk Hammett is setting up a business and has been looking at "online printing sites" such asSurfprint.co.uk. "Have you, or any of your readers, had experience of any of them?" I have not, but I am happy to forward any recommendations.
Printing your colour documents in the office rather than at the local printers ought to save you time and money. So why are UK businesses wasting around &#163;1.2bn a year on print costs, according to document consultancy Danka? Perhaps it's the cost of inkjet cartridges: drop for drop, Epson ink is seven times more expensive than vintage Dom Perignon, says the Consumer Association's Which? magazine.It doesn't help that it's so hard to compare costs between printers because there is no independent standard for pricing colour. Different manufacturers put different amounts of ink in cartridges and use different calculations for how many pages a cartridge will print. The new ISO 19752 standard for toner cartridge yield only covers black and white laser printers, although a similar standard for inkjet printers and cartridges is due December next year. As Mike Dinsdale, at Brother, says: "It's great news for consumers as the smoke and mirrors surrounding the subject of print yields will disappear."You don't need to wait that long to find out that although it's cheap to buy a budget inkjet printer, you'll pay for it later. Robin Edwardes, managing director of TallyGenicom's, reckons that for general day-to-day printing, the cost of running a shared-resource colour laser printer is approximately half the running costs of an inkjet - around 5p a page, although it's worth checking the figures specifically for your printers. A toner cartridge for a colour laser costs more than an inkjet cartridge and you may have to replace all the colours at once rather than just the one that is running low. But it prints more pages, so you don't waste time ordering and installing consumables as often.Edwardes points out that it's not usually the IT team that orders printer supplies, so it's easy to miss how much you're spending on them when you think about buying a new printer. And because printing is such a common task, you don't often work out just how much it's costing you, or what you could save by switching to a better-managed system.Hewlett Packard offers its snapshot service to enterprises, sending a consultant to count the number of printers and who's using them. Katie Palmer, colour category manager, is surprised how often businesses can't answer the simple question: "How many printers do you have?" Ricoh finds that printing is the third-biggest expenditure for most companies and PC World Business reckons it's typically 3% of business turnover, so it's worth doing the sums.Many offices don't need the photo-quality images that inkjets are good at. Colour lasers are faster, cheaper to run and have better paper handling features, with options from double-sided printing to sorting, stapling, hole punching and folding. While colour print speeds are slower than mono pages, they have caught up a lot: slow colour lasers give you around 12 pages per minute, but modern single-pass colour lasers manage twice that. There's also less temptation to run off holiday photos on the office printer, although HP's Palmer points out that while many businesses worry about workers taking advantage of colour facilities, she has never come across anyone finding it a problem in practice.Laser prices are coming down, too. Three years ago, &#163;1,000 for a colour laser printer was a bargain. Now you can get Ethernet-connected laser   printers with two paper trays (so you can keep higher quality paper in the printer for colour prints) for a little over &#163;500.For black-and-white printing, laser printers are indisputably better than inkjet: faster, cheaper and better quality. Colour-capable laser printers give you the option of colour when you want to pay for it and black and white when you don't. If you're thinking of adding colour or buying an extra office laser printer, Canon's Vince Braint suggests a colour-capable printer if less than a third of your printout needs are colour. Ink printers are also now much cheaper and Xerox's Phaser 8400 gives you fast network printing (24 pages a minute in colour) for around &#163;900.Manageability is where laser printers tend to beat inkjets hands down. You can connect any inkjet to a print server and keep track of when it runs   out of paper and ink, but you can plug a colour laser directly into your network and get a lot more information back, making it easier to audit as well as to use. Inkjets designed for the office, like HP's Business Inkjet range, offer the same network management and driver software control as laser printers, along with twin paper trays and duplex printing. Prices start lower, too, at around &#163;350.Simple systems let you restrict users to mono printers or force them to print in black and white on colour-capable printers. Sometimes you can put access controls into the printers directly: Sharp has colour printers with access codes for printing that limit the number of prints allowed and secure network cards that restrict the IP addresses of machines that can connect to the printer. That comes in handy if you get visitors from other departments using your   facilities. Most printer manufacturers have software administration systems that let you control the time slots when people can print, or push longer documents to high volume printers with lower running costs so they don't tie up slower printers.Rather than imposing limits, run an audit to find out who's printing what when, and how much it is costing you. It's not just designers who need colour printout: highlighting key facts in colour helps people find and remember information. Letting your accounts department print red reminders on overdue invoices could save you money. It's hard to read a web page designed for colour from a black and white printout, so allow people to print colour pages to read on the train. Think about where you put the printers: one printer in the right place is more efficient than two badly positioned.If you need to allocate print costs to particular projects or clients, printer administration software includes reporting tools that work this out for you automatically. To track costs accurately you need to know the colour coverage of a printout rather than just that it had some colour in it. Don't go overboard with policing colour, though. Making workers feel you don't trust them can create a strained atmosphere where they start pocketing office stationery because they feel undervalued.If you're worried about costs, explain things. Chantal Bowman, director at PR consultancy Golin/Harris recently sat down to look at how much colour printing was costing: "We emailed guidelines around the company and explained the policy during our regular company meeting. We also shared with employees our annual expenditure and the cost for each sheet."Make it too difficult to print the documents people need to produce in colour and frustrated users with expense accounts will end up buying desktop colour inkjets that cost you more to run and maintain than allowing for a few extra colour prints on centralised colour printers. Strike the right balance between control and convenience and you can have a colourful office without going into the red.Print Cost Calculatorwww.kyoceramita.co.ukFollowMe print roaming and auditing systemwww.ringdale.com/FollowMe
Sims: Bustin' OutNokia N-Gage, &#163;29.99 EA,   &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Sims: Bustin' Out is the best game available for Nokia's N-Gage. Not a particularly prestigious award, but the N-Gage is finding its feet and Bustin' Out should appeal to a rapidly growing and increasingly important market - casual gamers.Bustin' Out takes many elements from the PC Sims titles - micromanagement, interior decoration, relationship-building - but adds a more focused style of gameplay. So rather than spending hours deciding what chair to buy or which job to apply for, Bustin' Out sets your Sim a series of challenges, with the ultimate aim of moving into a swanky mansion.Money is earned by playing a series of games, such as riding a tractor or lifting weights. Players must also tend to their Sim's every bodily function. As in the PC original, your Sim needs washing, feeding and the key to the bathroom. By chatting to other characters your Sim will make friends, earn money and advance up the societal ladder.As you'd expect from an EA game, production values are high, with colourful and cute graphics. The   sound is annoying, though - the characters speak in nonsensical "Simlish" - so use headphones or prepare for commuter hatred. Despite a few issues with maps and layout, Sims Bustin' Out is an addictive portable treat.Greg HowsonDonkey Kong Country 2Game Boy Advance, &#163;29.99 Rare/Nintendo,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Donkey Kong Country 2 is the latest in a line of Super Nintendo Entertainment System games to have been repackaged by Nintendo and ported on to the GBA. Despite the title, you don't play as Donkey Kong. Instead, you jump into the simian shoes of Diddy Kong and his girlfriend Dixie, on a mission to save Kong from the dastardly grip of Kaptain K Rool.Although you can only play one character at a time, the aim is to have both Diddy and Dixie on screen at once and swap between the two. Both apes share almost all the same skills and a bit more individuality would   have been nice - although Dixie can turn her ponytail into a kind of mini-helicopter, a skill every girl needs.DKC2 contains eight worlds, which include a pirate ship, a slippery ice world and a surreal giant beehive area. Happily, Rare has managed to make the areas feel different and you will have to utilise different methods of playing to work your way through each one, rather than it being one long fruit-gathering jumpathon.There's quite a bit of gentle humour, which comes through in many of the animations. Overall, the graphics are not as sharp as Nintendo's previous GBA efforts. Yet the outcome is a cheery title adorned with bonus games and multiplayer modes for added longevity.Rhianna PratchettRichard Burns RallyPS2, Xbox, &#163;39.99 Warthog/SCi,&#42;&#42;&#42;2001 World Rally champion Richard Burns, convalescing after surgery to remove a brain tumour, should at least derive some cheer from the videogame that bears his name.You might not imagine the world needs another rallying game (particularly since rule-tinkering means this year's World Rally Championship lacks British drivers and much appeal as a spectacle), but Britsoft publisher SCi has found an angle.It set out to create the most realistic rally simulator, meticulously modelling every car component, and developing a terrain with realistic potholes, ditches, stray rocks and so on. This renders Richard Burns Rally a very difficult game.Sensibly, it has a Gran Turismo-style driving school, in which Burns and his co-driver Robert Reid teach you the techniques in a pleasantly innovative manner that encourages you to mimic Burns' smooth style. Neat touches include the ability to enlist the help of spectators during off-road excursions, and the chance to take on Burns head to head.Be warned, though: Richard Burns Rally provides a very different - and much less forgiving - experience than arcade-style games such as Colin McRae Rally, and will cause those who lack natural driving talent immense frustration. Buy it only if you are prepared to be very patient.Steve Boxer
It's 2013 and the latest craze is an online game called "Know your neighbour". It tricks government databases into revealing data about individuals. In response, the government signs a massive IT contract to put its chaotic systems in order. However, the contractors underestimate the difficulties.By 2015, weaknesses in online public services are frustrating honest citizens and providing fertile ground for criminals. Some people are calling for a return to government based on paper.Don't panic. Although the scenario, called "frog boiler", appears in a government-funded research publication, no one says it's going to happen. It's designed to get policy-makers thinking about how to prevent cyber-crime in a near future.The study, Cyber Trust and Crime Prevention, a multi-disciplinary Foresight research project funded by the government's Office of Science and Technology, warns that criminals are enthusiastic early adopters of technology. "Cyberspace is subject to unpredictable 'emergent' behaviour, especially at the interfaces between its component systems, which are constantly growing in number and type." Opportunities for crime and mischief will grow as networked computer power becomes available almost everywhere.In the face of this threat, policies of security, privacy protection and risk assessment will need to be re-thought. "There's a degree of complacency," warns the study's co-editor, Professor Robin Mansell, of the London School of Economics and Political Science.The study finds that software that   supports cyberspace today is "not good enough", partly because it is developed on the cheap. "If the internet of the future is to be sufficiently trustworthy and dependable for the uses that will be made of it, its users will need to be more willing to invest in reliable systems."We also need to get better at proving identities online. One of the Foresight team, Professor Angela Sasse, of University College London, warns that ways of authenticating online identities are ineffective and costly. The next leap forward, smartcards with biometric authentication, is also flawed, she suggests. Criminals will collect massive records of biometrics - iris patterns or fingerprints - to attack systems. But tightening up the system to avoid allowing "false positives" might make it impossible to use.Another study warns that future pervasive networks will be much larger than today, and have to run non stop. "But the timetables and budgets for building them will be finite," say Foresight researchers Cliff Jones and Brian Randell, of the University of Newcastle upon Tyne. It may be impossible to remove all bugs from such systems: the only hope may be to find ways of educating users about how much they should trust a particular system.Life becomes even more difficult when, as the Foresight researchers predict, cyberspace is populated with autonomous software agents licensed to make decisions on their owner's behalf. People will not want an agent working on behalf of an unknown organisation to have access to data handled by an agent entrusted with medical data.The proposed "semantic web", which may succeed the world wide web, will be too big to maintain central registers of who is entitled to see what data. Agents will need their own credentials, for other agents to evaluate.Two University of Southampton    researchers, Sarvapali Ramchurn and Nicholas Jennings, suggest that the solution is to design systems that would allow truthful agents to prosper while untruthful ones are shunned. Relationships between agents could be modelled on auctions, a form of human transac tion that, with certain limits, forces honesty on participants.To explore where these kinds of issues could lead, the project commissioned a scenario-building exercise based on a technique called Virtual Future Hindsight. Participants start from an imagined future and look back at the events and policy decisions that got them there.The researchers tried three scenarios, set in 2018. At one extreme - "knowing it all" - government controls crime by comprehensive surveillance. At the other extreme - "touch me not" - privacy-demanding individuals take responsibility for their security both online and offline. In a third, electronic public services are ubiquitous, but riddled with fraud and cyber crime. This is frog boiler.Some of the scenario assumptions have already been overtaken by events. A "worm" targeted at mobile phones appeared earlier this year, 10 years ahead of the date imagined in frog boiler. But all the scenarios raised difficult questions.All identified the need for an independent, trusted third party to monitor the way in which personal data is collected, managed and used by government and industry, both in the UK and internationally.Parts of the study make uncomfortable reading for the government. The published material comes with a disclaimer that "the findings are independent of government and do not constitute government policy".However, Mansell says there's still time to get it right, while technologies such as software agents are still in the lab. "There's lots and lots of room for manoeuvre."
Who is the greatest magician? Is it one of the two Davids: Copperfield or Blaine? Or perhaps the American duo Penn      and Teller? None of the above. It is in fact Steve Jobs, the boss of Apple Computer.Last week, at the firm's annual      shindig for software developers, Jobs plucked a huge rabbit out of thin air. The rabbit was actually a cat: Tiger,      Apple's latest operating system. (You couldn't call a killer product Cottontail, could you?)The thin air was Apple's puny market share: it has less than 2% of the desktop market. With such a small beachhead,      this new operating system should be of little interest to the community of software developers. Developers, after all,      want to make profits from writing software. And the Windows market is much larger, and ergo, more profitable than      the Apple market.Not necessarily. Profitability is a function of a number of things, most simply your revenues and your costs. But      selling higher-margin products to a smaller market can be a better business than selling low-margin products to a      large market. Think of Prada compared to Marks and Spencer. If you can reduce your costs enough, the equation      becomes even more attractive.With Tiger, Apple has introduced a slew of technologies in video- and audio-processing, which are essential as the      computer doubles up as a media hub.       These make it simple for developers to create digital media applications. In the past, to manipulate sound and video      the way Jobs did, a developer needed special (and expensive) expertise that only resided in firms such as Adobe. With      Tiger, these features are available to any software developer. In other words, it has suddenly become easier and      cheaper to create cool media applications.What does this mean? For developers whose business is making and selling software, the Mac just got a whole lot      more attractive.The second half of the profit equation is your ability to sell. A smaller market is not necessarily a less desirable      market. The game of market segmentation is to divvy up your market into as many small and coherent slices as you can      and give that market something for which they will pay extra.Macintosh users have already segmented themselves. Just the act of buying a Macintosh takes the hard work out of      figuring what a particular user wants. A good analogy might be free newspapers against paid-for newspapers. Free      papers go to everyone by default. The audience is untargeted so advertising rates are comparatively lower than for      paid-for newspapers, which have a self-selecting audience.In the computer industry, the same dynamic exists. The Windows platform is the default with an undifferentiated      audience. The Macintosh user base is self-selecting. As in the media world, there is room for both to make money.       Jobs has created a compelling case for more developers to invest in the Mac. He is even keeping Microsoft - whose Mac      business unit is a great success - happy. The magic really is working.&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address    published, please say so
Price difference"BT hammers prices in broadband battle" (Guardian, June 30). Surely "BT continues to keep prices artificially high" would be more apt. With few exceptions, when you buy an ADSL product in Britain, it is a resold BT package. In France, we have Local Loop Unbundling. For &euro;30 a month, I have a 5Mbps connection from Free that also delivers about 100 TV channels and free telephone calls. Were I on a budget, I could choose instead a 1024kbps connection from Alice for &euro;11. I make that less than &#163;8.Andy CookSingle purposeI have just bought a Sony MiniDisc recorder (NET.MD Walkman MZ-N710) with a mic input and a microphone, thinking it would give me a cost-effective way of recording performances by myself and my friends and then creating MP3 or WAV files I could use on websites.Imagine my horror when I found that while I can record live music on to a MiniDisc, the USB cable and SonicStage software provided will not allow me to transfer tracks from the MiniDisc to my hard drive.Judging by what is said in the manual, this is a deliberate limitation, introduced to prevent copyright breaking. Also, presumably, to prevent bootlegging, even if the performance I am "bootlegging" is my own!It seems absurd that this equipment is designed to be useless for the first purpose that any musician would want to use it for. Is there a relatively affordable and portable way of recording music to turn into   hard disk files? I work with Morris dancers and folk musicians in pubs, so plugging a microphone directly into my home PC is not an option. But I do not want to spend thousands on professional recording equipment.I am looking for something of a price and quality similar to the Sony MiniDisc, that does what any sensible person would expect it to do.Tony FowlerReadingAccessible radioThe report on the proposed new features in digital radio was very interesting. But blind people such as me will have to play catch up while the technology people try to find ways of making the technology accessible for us.Mark TaylorGamefully employedI suspect the meaning of Dr Mark Griffiths assertion (Feedback, July 1) that "one in five women are online gamers" might have been lost in translation. I wonder if he meant one in five online gamers are women? Otherwise his comparison with the 62% claimed by 3RD Sense seems a little unscientific - even for a professor of gambling studies!Dave HutchinsonSheffieldRecording abilitySeveral times in Online I have read that Nokia phones may soon be able to support Advanced Audio Coding (AAC) files, previously the territory of the iPod. Contrary to this, the N-Gage can support AAC files, and when recording through its audio cable, records to this by default.Mike HoltStereo clashI have a Nokia 6230 that has a good stereo radio and Bluetooth. The only problem is that Nokia has now told me you can't use both together, a point it doesn't make in promoting   the phone! Does anyone know a workaround?Dave SuttonBristolWell equippedYour equipment reviewers (Freeview plays catch-up with Sky, July 1; Listen for 30 hours, June 24) should look more widely when checking out new devices.I have been using my excellent Humax PVR-8000T Freeview recorder (40GB) happily for the past few months now. It also cost less than &#163;150. The iRiver iHP-140 40GB hard disk MP3/WMA/Ogg player is now replacing the successful iHP-120 player, and costs less than &#163;250. They both have integrated voice recorder, FM radio and can record from line-in to MP3, as well as functioning as a portable hard drive. However, battery life is stated to be 16 hours.Mike WhittakerShropshireOverlooked TwinIn the article Freeview plays catch-up, you overlook the fact that the Pace Twin - which has a 20GB hard drive, two digital tuners and can pause TV and record programmes - has been available for months and can be picked up for around &#163;200. In addition, the Humax PVR-8000T, while not containing two tuners, also has a hard drive for recording.Dominic SelfSetting the PaceAshley Norris says: "Two years on from the launch of the Sky+ satellite decoder/hard disk recorder, there is finally an equivalent unit for digital terrestrial (Freeview) viewers. But there has been a Pace dual tuner HDD device around for a while now. It has a seven-day EPG and you can watch the start of a recording while still recording the end of it.Colin Blakemorecolin.blakemore@dds.co.uk
Moving stuffIt might be stretching a point to describe the BBC's motion picture library as "one of the world's great living treasures", but it certainly makes compulsive viewing. The library includes more than 300,000 hours of footage from the BBC and CBS News, going back more than 70 years. You can get a taste from the public site, with clips streamed to Windows Media Player in a browser window. However, you have to register for full access to videos and your own "storage bins", and to be able to download preview clips.The MPL even offers to dig out any clips you need ("Call or email us now and let our researchers tap into the motherlode for you"). As well as being entertaining, the site also looks like a long-term revenue opportunity.www.bbcmotiongallery.comEuro fun"Learning about Europe can be fun," claims the European Commission, and its EuropaGO site proves it. It offers four games in 11 languages for kids aged 10-14, with more to come. Games cover things like European history and geography. Click the piggy bank on the welcome screen and you can play at collecting a set of Euro currency - coins and notes - while avoiding enemies such as wasps and magpies. It's not SuperMario, but there are worse things around.www.europa.eu.int/europagoMusic listsAs the current music download scene surely testifies, there's almost nothing blokes like better than making lists of their favourite albums. Pitchfork Media has been doing that for about five years, with several advantages: you get nice little reviews and cover art, and you don't actually have to listen to any of them. Pitchfork's list of the top 100 for the 1970s is as odd as expected, given the widely   different tastes of the people who picked them. David Bowie's Low, for example, takes the top spot, when it probably wouldn't feature in a list of top 10 Bowie albums. But if the 70s seems just too long ago, the site has similar lists of 80s and 90s albums to argue about. You can also dive into the archive of reviews that Pitchfork has been publishing daily since 1995.http://pitchforkmedia.com/top/70shttp://pitchforkmedia.com/top/80shttp://pitchforkmedia.com/top/80sAnti-phishingWindows users who are worried they might fall victim to "phishing" - the use of fake sites to collect personal and financial information - can now add a toolbar that helps to spot the scam. SpoofGuard, from Stanford University's security lab, works as an Internet Explorer plug-in. It makes a wide range of checks then gives you either a green, yellow or red light. SpoofStick is a much simpler program that tells you which site you are on. It works with IE and Firefox. It may also be worth visiting the Anti-Phishing Working Group site for the latest news.http://pitchforkmedia.com/top/80swww.corestreet.com/spoofstickwww.antiphishing.orgTrain trackerTube travellers watch the dot matrix indicators to find out when the next train is due. But Bal&#225;zs Boros's Tubetrack lets you do the same thing at home. Unfortunately, the tube data is limited to the Bakerloo line between Queens Park and Elephant and Castle, and the Docklands Light Railway, but the latest version 0.3 also handles "live departures and arrivals for all UK national rail stations". The software uses the internet to collect information from the Transport for London Tube estimated time of arrival (ETA), DLR Daisy and National Rail websites, and displays it on your desktop instead of in a browser. There are versions for Microsoft Windows, Linux (SuSE and Red Hat) and Mac OS, and they are all free.http://homepage.mac.com/balazsboros/tubetrackFuller flavourGoogle Labs has launched a beta test version of what it calls "site- flavored search", which means it is optimised to provide better results for users of a particular site - possibly yours. How does Google know what to highlight? It uses "a profile created by a site's webmaster on behalf of the site's visitors". The profiling starts with categories such as health, home and music. Choose music and you get a choice of sub-categories such as electronica and bluegrass, and so it goes.www.google.com/services/siteflavored.htmlNew &amp; notedBots for pre-schoolerswww.littlerobots.comWeird foodswww.weird-food.comOffice Moron quizhttp://rumandmonkey.comSix of the best:Marlon BrandoObituaryhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/entertainment/3568221.stmFilmographywww.imdb.comTributehttp://brando.crosscity.comWikipediahttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marlon_BrandoTrivia quizwww.meredy.com/brandotriv.htmYahoo directoryhttp://dir.yahoo.com/Entertainment
Seers reckon that pretty soon you'll be ditching your iPod for a device that also displays images and videos on its integrated LCD screen. You will also be able to record TV programmes for viewing on the move.Trouble is, the devices require large-capacity hard disks to store the video files. So we can't work out why DM Tech is offering a player with just 128MB of Flash memory - enough for 35 minutes of video. You can add higher-storage cards, but this ramps up the cost to the level of rival hard disk players with 20 times more storage.The &#163;289 DM Tech AV-10 is a classy-looking gadget. It is slim, light and boasts a good 3.5in LCD screen. It is simple to use and coped with all the video, image and MP3 music files we threw at it. Recording programmes from the TV was simply a matter of running a cable between the two and pressing record.The only other real criticism was the lack of an external speaker. Now if only it had a hard disk.www.boysstuff.co.uk
Microsoft has just unveiled a preview of its new search technology, and a new MSN search page, but not in the same place. These are useful steps forward, but the company still has a very long way to go.The new MSN search page looks like most other search pages nowadays - a lot like Google, perhaps even more like Yahoo - but with a drop-down menu. This makes MSN Search worth bookmarking, because of the handy options it offers: Web, News, Dictionary, Encarta Encyclopedia, News, Stock Quotes, Movies and Shopping.But if you want to search the web, MSN still offers the same as before: results supplied not by Microsoft but by Yahoo. The layout of the results looks like a copy of Google:   it even uses the same mixture of blue, black and green text. The similarity is even greater now that MSN's "sponsored sites" - advertisements - are boxed out and clearly separated from the search results.To add to the illusion, MSN users can also install a free MSN Toolbar that blocks pop-up advertisements, much like the Google Toolbar.Unfortunately for Microsoft, MSN Search still lacks two of Google's most important features. First, Google keeps local caches of pages that let you quickly find your search words: MSN Search doesn't. This is odd, because Yahoo's similar search page does have cached pages. The second and less obvious drawback is speed. MSN Search is a lot slower than Google. Since most web users place a high value on   rapid responses, this is a major problem.People will, of course, wait a few seconds for information they want, such as Encarta articles. In this case, the drawback is that some of the search results are not available: they are marked "Exclusively for MSN Encarta Premium Subscribers".Microsoft is also developing its own search technology, and is looking for feedback athttp://techpreview.search.msn.com. It certainly produces reasonable results but, on the examples I tried, nothing that is obviously better than Google's. Nor does it offer any extra features, such as thumbnail previews of sites or a Teoma-style grouping of results.To crack the search market, Microsoft will need to produce something that is clearly and   obviously better than Google. That is, after all, what enabled Google to overtake established search engines such as AltaVista, Excite and Lycos. It is not impossible, but I can see no such advance on either of Microsoft's sites. At the moment, then, MSN is no threat to the search engine leaders, Google and Yahoo.Still, MSN Search's primary job is to satisfy MSN and Hotmail users, and there are about 100 million of those a month. It will be successful if they stick around to search on the MSN site instead of going to Google or Yahoo. Its second job is to satisfy the people who search from Internet Explorer, and who get sent MSN results by default. The third and final stage - getting users to switch from Google or Yahoo to MSN Search - is still nowhere in sight.&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so
'After booting the house..." Grady Booch, software design pioneer and IBM fellow and principal architect of software development, pauses, letting his Dublin audience laugh at the notion.He is in the middle of an anecdote - he seems to be regularly sidetracked by recalling amusing incongruities - but, as with any good storyteller, it's an anecdote with a purpose.Booch and his wife have just built a home in Colorado with five miles of high-speed fibre optic cable, a web server, 19 network nodes and a terabyte server. He recently discovered a problem when guests had to phone to get him to open the front door."My doorbell had crashed," he says, with the kind of pleasure only select alpha geeks would get from such an unlikely scenario. His doorbell was one of his network nodes. Instead of the wiring running from the doorbell to a ringer, it was wired into his broadcast network so that speakers throughout the house would announce someone was at the door.But the guests rang and rang, and nothing happened. "I had to boot the doorbell," he sighs.The tale is the start of his argument that software architects need to build simplicity - or, at least, "the illusion of simplicity" - and reliability into their products, a job that is, and will remain, fundamentally difficult."The entire history of software engineering is characterised by rising levels of abstraction," he says. This complexity places limits on the development of software - some that can be overcome, some that seem intractable. These he maps on to a coni cal diagram that graduates between two extremes - the fundamental limits of hard science and the limits imposed by human imagination.Setting aside the fact that Booch believes some software shouldn't be developed, for moral and ethical reasons, he enumerates a list of headaches that can either slow or halt software production.Some are surprising. Software, he notes, is something people think of as entirely virtual. But he found, during work with Nasa's Jet Propulsion Lab in California, that when software is sent into space, it goes in the form of programs etched on to computer memory. Thus a program can have - and be limited by its - weight.Software developers will also soon bump up against the physical limits of Moore's Law. Processors could be produced at the atomic level, he says, but the strange world of quantum physics eventually takes over. Developers would be required to write quantum programs - but first figure out what they are.Certain "laws of software" - the limits of what a program can do - also constrain development, as do problems with finding new and better algorithms, issues around security and distributed systems, and software design problems.As the cone moves further towards the "human" end, Booch enumerates problems of economics (is there value to be gained by writing a particular program even though it can be done?), the influence of politics, internationally, nationally or within an organisation and, finally, the limits of human imagination.Technical problems are not the biggest issues in development. "We   need the computer science breakthroughs, but the primary barriers are not technical, but on the funny fringe of the technical and social."Many of the "points of friction" include collaborative work, poor communication, lack of time to get work done, lack of stakeholder cooperation and what he simply calls "stuff that doesn't work".After his talk, he notes that software development issues are generally invisible to the public. "Software has moved into the interstitial spaces of the world," becoming ubiquitous in cars, planes, shops and general work and play environments. We don't notice it is there, yet "there's a tremendous amount being built. But there are still lots of problems to overcome, to build it efficiently".His current project is to write a handbook of software architecture. A problem with understanding software design is that it is not linear, in the way that physical engineering is: design a bridge and the structural issues can be examined and calculations tested to make sure the bridge is physically sound."But software systems are discontinuous in nature. They defy the normal kind of analysis." The handbook will examine types of software architecture to document and expose it. "I think the time is now for this."A favourite project is documenting and archiving early software programs at the Computer History Museum in Silicon Valley. Not only is this an important project to preserve the design of early programs, help understand how software has changed over time and how some pioneering programmers thought, it is also an effort to combat the rising   tide of software patents, he says.Within those old programs is much "prior art" - proof that an idea has already been conceived, tested and used. The discovery of prior art should halt many spurious attempts to patent software programs and processes, he believes.But at the heart of his enthusiasm for the project is a pure love of the medium: "I believe there's an intrinsic beauty of software."
Mobile phonesMotorola mobileMotorola has confirmed that its second Windows Mobile-based clamshell phone will be launched in the UK in the autumn. The MPx220 features a 1.3 megapixel camera with a 3x zoom and flash, Bluetooth and 64MB Flash Rom, as well as Microsoft applications such as Outlook, Windows Media and Pocket Explorer. Motorola has also begun to ship its innovative V80 fashion camera phone to UK stores. Available via O2, Orange and Vodafone, the oval-shaped handset features a rotating cover that sports its main 64K colour screen. Other facilities include Java, POP3 email and Polyphonic ringtones.www.motorola.co.ukLG ups storageKorean manufacturer LG is to deliver four new mobile phones to the UK over the coming months. Both the 8150, set to be Orange's 3G launch flagship phone, and the 8120, slated to arrive next month on the 3 network, are similar to the 8110, which 3 claims was last month's best-selling handset. They keep the 8110's small   clamshell design, person-to-person video-calling facility and POP3 email compatibility, but add more storage (8120) and better battery life (8150). LG is also debuting a pair of low-end clamshell mobiles - the C1100 and C1200. Neither feature cameras, but both sport GPRS, Java and Wap functionality. The C1100 is available from Orange, while the C1200 is for T-Mobile customers only.www.lge.co.ukHardwareWatch the musicSeveral years after Casio debuted the first MP3-playing watch, the musical timepiece is making a comeback. Thanko, a Japanese company, has unveiled a series of MP3 watches available in the UK via the Audiocubes website. The top-end model, the Thanko MP3 MPA03128W Ultra Disk   watch, has 128MB of storage, supports MP3 and WMA music files and features an analogue-style display on its screen. It is also the first MP3 watch that can record music from any audio source. Alternatively, Thanko offers the MPA03128W, an analogue screen watch that features MP3 playback and 128MB of storage. Both models sell for &#163;153.50.www.audiocubes.comSearch tipsIt may seem perverse to part with good money for a book telling you how to use a service that comes free, but when that service is something as complex as Google, it is a small price to pay. Google, The Missing Manual is the latest in a stream of books containing numerous tips on how to improve your search skills. It should prove very useful to casual searchers. Tips range from putting a "+" sign in front of "the" to force Google to take note of a common word it usually ignores, to using the BlogThis! function in the Google toolbar (which, incidentally, merits a chapter on its own) to automatically create a new post that includes a link to the current   page. Well worth the money.See: Google, The Missing Manual, published by O'Reilly, &#163;13.95.Music playersWait is overAfter several years of stalling, Sony has unveiled a hard disk audio player designed to take on Apple's iPod. Due for a UK launch in September, the NW-HD1is smaller and lighter than its Apple rival. It also boasts better battery life, running for 20 hours as opposed to the iPod's eight. Users can transfer both MP3 and Windows Media tracks to the player via its SonicStage software, with the files converted into Sony's proprietary Atrac 3 format. The NW-HD1is one of several devices, including a second hard disk player - the Vaio VGF-AP1 - and a range of MiniDisc personals, compatible with downloads from Sony's just-launched Connect music service.www.sony.co.ukwww.connect.com
Beaten by a whiskerOlder data centres and e-government sites should take heed of problems assailing the Colorado secretary of state's office. A series of computer outages has been traced to small metallic filaments, known as zinc whiskers. The fibres form a fuzzy surface on zinc-coated surfaces such as data centre flooring and ageing computer casings. As the minute filaments detach, they are sucked into computers by their cooling fans, and can cause power supplies to short or even cause data errors by shorting out the connectors on microchips. In Colorado, the resulting downtime prevented electronic filings of business and elections documents.http://nepp.nasa.gov &#91;pdf&#93;Trouble in storeMost British companies could be heavily fined because of their failure to comply with data storage regulations, warns Adaptec, a data storage company. In a survey of 100 firms by Vanson Bourne, 85% admitted they have not had formal training on how to comply with the burgeoning regulations on data retention. About a third had no policy on company email storage, and 53% could not retrieve emails more than three years old. Key legislation that could apply to companies includes the Data Protection Act, Basel II, the US regulation Sarbanes-Oxley, and the recently updated Combined Code.Better weatherThe Met Office is upgrading the supercomputers it uses for modelling worldwide weather systems. The current Crays will be replaced by two NEC SX-6 machines, which have been shadowing the older systems during a test period. The computational power will be increased six-fold, and the Met Office claims forecast accuracy will be improved by around 6%. Although capable of a trillion calculations per second, the Met Office hardware falls a long way behind the system from which it takes some of its data. The European Centre for Medium-Range Forecasts (ECMWE) uses IBM eServer pSeries 690 servers that can reach speeds of 16 trillion calculations per second.McAfee backMcAfee is the new name for Network Associates. The company's decision to revert to its former name follows the sale of several product lines that prompted the change in name when it acquired Network General in 1997. McAfee is selling its Sniffer Technologies unit to Silver Lake Partners, and   Texas Pacific Group and has already divested its Magic Solutions help desk to BMC. Last month, there was a rumour that Microsoft planned to buy McAfee. This has been quashed with Microsoft's disclosure that it is considering including anti-virus software in its Windows portfolio, but will probably do it through partnerships.www.mcafee.comSimpler codingMicrosoft has announced a string of lightweight Express programming products aimed at "hobbyists, enthusiasts, and novices who want to build dynamic Windows applications and web sites" - or who just don't want to use the full Visual Studio system. The range includes versions of Visual Basic, C#, C++ and Web Developer 2005. Users can download beta test versions fromhttp://lab.msdn.microsoft.com/expressBag tagsAirlines and airport authorities are looking at radio frequency identity (RFID) tags to end the nightmare of baggage going missing. Delta Air Lines plans to be the first to launch the tracking system across its US routes. The company claims that trials show that an investment of between $15m and $25m will save the company up to $100m each year. The company will tag all luggage at check-in and remove the tags when the bags arrive at the destination airport's carousel. Later, it plans to allow passengers to track their own baggage throughout a journey.Handy storageXimeta has launched its low-end NetDisk storage system in the UK. Basically, it's a small, portable hard drive that can be attached to a PC via a USB port. Unlike similar products, it can also be plugged into an Ethernet network via a network switch - or you can go for the NetDisk Office product, which combines the hard drive with a switch. A NetDisk can therefore be plugged into a small office network, perhaps for back-up purposes. Take the drive home at night and you have a cheap, off-site back-up in case of fire, theft or other disaster. The main drawback is that a special driver has to be installed on each computer that uses the drive, unless you attach one to a PC and use Windows File Sharing. (NetDisk does not come with an IP address and does not run TCP/IP.)www.ximeta.com
Do you use the internet for research?I don't do a great deal of research for my novels, so I mainly use the internet for fun. It is good for tracking down hard-to-find novels, particularlyAbe Books, or for finding out about authors who have fallen out of print. Email is handy for work. When I first got email, it paid for my new iMac inside a week.Do you read online comments about your books?It is funny doing searches for my novels, finding articles in French, Italian, Croatian, and so on. Sometimes I read comments on my books on sites, and they are more perceptive and intelligently written than those in the professional media.What technologies were used for the making of the film The Football Factory?The Football Factory was made on a tiny budget and shot entirely on digital video. This cut down the costs massively, as you don't have to splash out on expensive film. Money was tight and came from outside the film business.Is downloading music killing it or simply changing people's experiences?I don't download music, but I can see why younger generations do. Why pay a tenner for some dodgy sleeve notes? As for building up massive libraries and carrying them in your pocket, this is Britain today: quantity over quality. Why would anyone want to carry 10,000 songs around with them?What hi-fi equipment do you have?I buy most of my music on vinyl and play it on a Rega Planar 3 turntable. I have   an Arcam 7R amplifier, Arcam Alpha 8 tuner, B&amp;W speakers and Yamaha KX-W321 cassette player. CDs are tinny, with all the personality of an empty tin can, but I also have a Marantz CD-63 Mk II CD player, as a lot of music isn't available on vinyl. I love my stereo system. It makes a massive difference listening to music properly.Are there opportunities for technology to build communities?For me, communities are where you live and work and socialise. Technology is a tool but it has taken over. I think people are more isolated than ever, sitting in front of screens on their own all night. There is more and more information available and people know less and less.Mac or PC?I use an Apple iBook. It is a great machine, and means I can go anywhere to write. Before that I had an iMac. I need to get more computer-  literate, but when it comes to technology, the instructions are so complicated. I find the mechanics boring and get frustrated quickly. Saying that, I have just bought the Freeway 3.5 Pro web design package so I can build up several sites based around my books.Mobile phones?I have a Nokia 3330e. I text more than make calls, using it as mobile email. I hate mobiles in one way, though, because so many people use them to show how important they think they are, as if they always have to be available.I hardly ever go out socially with my mobile, but will do if I get one of those new ones with a built-in camera. They are pretty smart.John King's favourite sitesCensus siteswww.1901census.nationalarchives.gov.ukwww.familysearch.orgAmerican punk rock siteswww.punk77.co.ukwww.rancidrancid.comAuthor siteswww.laurahird.comwww.stewarthomesociety.orgFootball siteshttp://chelsea.rivals.net&#183;John King's sixth book, The Prison House, is now on sale
The new members of parliament are going to have to face the final reading of one of the most lobbied pieces of European legislation: the one "on the patentability of computer-implemented inventions". Their decision will shape the European technology world for years, and, say lobbyists, much for the worse. In the US, the EFF (Electronic Frontier Foundation) has just formed a coalition to try to overturn software patents already granted.As part of an effort to harmonise the laws of the 25 member states, the European Commission and European Parliament are considering overriding reforms of the patent system.Part of this means clarifying the position regarding software, which is extremely fuzzy. Under current law, passed in 1973, software cannot be patented. However, a clarification in 1986 made it possible in the eyes of the European Patent Office and, since then, around 30,000 software patents have been approved.The premise of the patent system is simple: reward the effort spent by inventors in advancing their field by giving them a temporary monopoly on the invention. Innovation is then encouraged, because it says to the inventor: "Go ahead and risk your time and effort building it because if you succeed, we'll let you, and only you, make money from it for a while."Society wins because innovators are spurred on by the knowledge that their risk will be rewarded, and because the patent is published: the invention is available for study, if not for use.It's a balance provided by society to encourage people to risk time and money to develop new ideas.For many industries, the patent system can be a good approach. Pharmaceutical companies, for example, usually require decades and millions of pounds to develop and test a new drug. They can only recoup this investment if given a monopoly for at least a few years. Heavy industry, aircraft design, hi-tech electronics, the car industry: innovations in these areas require long and expensive research and development, which is less likely to be done if its fruits can be stolen the minute the first product comes out. Patents, therefore, encourage innovation. Software patents, say proponents, would do the same.Not so, say opponents, because software is a special case. Here's why: before the 1986 clarification, the only things that could be patented were physical inventions. Drugs and oil rigs can be compared with others, and can thus be patented. You can't patent business plans or mathematical formulae, the rules to games, philosophical systems or religions. These are all abstract ideas, and are specifically excluded."Software is exactly the same as a business method in that you're writing down a series of steps, and giving that to something to execute... you're giving the series of steps to a machine to execute instead of a person," says Alex Hudson, vice chairman of the UK's Association for Free Software. "It feels like a technical subject but, at the end of the day, the generation of a piece of software is very much like thinking up a game or a new business method, or any other abstract idea."The loophole that allows the software patents to be granted is the idea that the software code has a physical effect. If a program allows a machine to be more efficient, or a drug to be administered in a better way, or a   previously unattainable effect to be achieved, then the software, proponents say, has what is called "technical effect". Hence, you can patent it. No one has clarified exactly how much of an effect on how much of a machine a program must have.When you then have the premise that all computers are general-purpose machines, and that all software gives these general- purpose machines new abilities and improvements, and hence a technical effect, then you have the premise that software is patentable.Opponents point out that software code is really just a written expression of an abstract idea. The code itself describes the idea. This leads to some nasty legal ramifications. For one thing, the implementation is irrelevant. The code you write the program in doesn't matter.For example, take Louisiana Tech University's Hello World webpagehttp://www2.latech.edu/~acm/HelloWorld.shtml. This lists 204 different code examples that all print the ubiquitous programmer's greeting. They're short and simple, and range from Lisp's "(LOOP (FORMAT T "~%Hello World"))" to a punch card code for a 1960s IBM 1401 that reads ",008015, 022029, 036043, 050054, 055062, 063065, 066077/333/M0762502F1 .HELLO WORLD".A patent on one of these examples would, by necessity of patent law, cover all the others. It couldn't cover the code itself but, rather, the idea of a program to print the words "Hello World". Thus, for the first time, and contrary to usual practice, the patenting of software introduces the patenting of abstract ideas, and not just their implementation. This, say opponents, could be very dangerous indeed.Unless you can be sure that no part of your program has been patented, you are running the risk of being sued for the money you make from it.A large program might contain tens of thousands of discrete ideas and techniques in action. So, in the words of Richard Stallman, the famed free software activist, "software patents are like landmines for programmers. At each design decision, there is a chance you will step on a patent and it will destroy your project. Considering the large number of ideas that must be combined in a modern program, the danger becomes very large."Software patents, then, can make development difficult because of their sheer number. They can also make things difficult by their range. Ideas are subject to interpretation, but means that with a good lawyer, you can patent seemingly obvious and wide-ranging ideas.A case in point is Amazon.com's European Gift Ordering Patent. The online retailer allows you to buy gifts for people: you choose what you want, and they'll wrap it and send it on. One problem, though, is that you might not know the address of the person to whom you want to give the present. How would you solve that?The solution, to which Amazon now holds the exclusive right in Europe for the next   20 years, is for Amazon to send the recipient an email asking for their address. That's it. The patent is not for the code, the look and feel of the site, or the work needed to integrate Amazon's databases and email servers, all of which are automatically covered by copyright. Rather, it covers the idea, the abstract solution to the problem of not knowing someone's address when you've been commissioned to send them something. They have the exclusive right to send an email to the recipient to ask them, and anyone wanting to build a system to do that must pay Amazon for the privilege.This new protection for abstract ideas changes the economic logic of patents. In the case of a new drug or airplane wing, there is an enormous amount of investment. The inventor must recoup the cost of years of work. So it's a fair balance between the needs of society and the needs of industry. But with pure ideas, anyone can think one up in moments. Thinking of ways to solve problems is largely what computer programmers do from day to day.The cost of the invention is negligible: the main cost borne by computer software developers is in the implementation of the idea, not the idea itself. That implementation - the coding, testing and debugging - is the hard part, and is already covered by copyright. It doesn't need patent law at all, say critics.The proponents of the legislation say this is not true, and that they need patents to protect their total investment in a product or else they will not be able to continue to innovate. The opponents say software patents are the only way large compa nies can get away with not innovating.As one anti-patent lobbyist writes: "The only way to survive without innovation is (by) having a monopoly, such as the one a software patent grants. So granting patents for software is the equivalent in the information society of what in the industrial society would be giving away monopolies in exchange for building a factory or even for tightening bolts in an assembly line."Says Hudson: "Patents are not used as ways of generating revenue: they don't seek damages, they look for patent swaps. It's almost like a quasi-financial system. They are used to gang up on new companies entering markets_ The only way of competing in some markets is to have a large patent portfolio and cross-license it with other large companies."The players coming in from industries where things were hardware-based rather than software-based, are pushing for it," he says. "The bigger you are, the better the deal is... Small companies can't fund litigation."So who is for these things? Large companies, such as Nokia and Microsoft, seem to be active lobbyists. The UK government is in favour, too, with Labour MEPs voting for their introduction. The last session of parliament introduced amendments to the patent laws that would further prevent software patents, but in May, the council of ministers voted against these amendments.The legislation now goes back to parliament for a second reading. If the parliament and council continue to disagree, the legislation will have to go in front of a conciliation committee. The result of this wrangling could not be any more important.&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so
"Apple Computer Inc on Wednesday said its iPod mini digital music player would be available internationally, beginning July 24, at a price of $249," reportsReuters."Apple had originally planned to start worldwide shipping in April."Comment:UK price will be 179 quid inc VAT.
"Thirty-six percent of all computer software installed worldwide last year was pirated, costing the industry US$29 billion in lost revenue, an industry alliance said Wednesday. The problem is worsening, in part because of increased file-swapping over the Internet, said Jeffrey Hardee, Asian regional director for the Business Software Alliance, backed by industry giants such as Microsoft and IBM," reportsAP."Three of the top five countries with the highest incidence of pirated software were in Asia, Hardee said, naming China (92 percent), Vietnam (92 percent) and Indonesia (88 percent). The others were Ukraine (91 percent) and Russia (87 percent)."
Call it the ultimate wireless network. From the ends of your fingers to the tips of your toes, the human body is a moving, throbbing collection of tubes and tunnels, filled with salty water and all capable of transmitting the lifeblood of the 21st century: information.In what may seem a move too far to some, the computer software giant Microsoft has been granted exclusive rights to this ability of the body to act as a computer network. Two weeks ago the company was awarded US Patent 6,754,472, which bears the title: Method and apparatus for transmitting power and data using the human body.Microsoft envisages using the human skin's conductive properties to link a host of electronic devices around the body, from pagers and personal data assistants (PDA) to mobile phones and microphones, although the company is uncharacteristically coy about exactly what it may have in mind.In a statement it said: "Microsoft hasn't recently held discussions about this patent, and it does not currently map to any particular Microsoft product that is either shipping or in development. That said, one of the objectives of the intellectual property licensing policy Microsoft adopted in December 2003 is to provide other parties with access to the fruits of Microsoft's nearly $7bn annual investment in R&amp;D - especially to innovations that do not end up manifesting as Microsoft products."According to the patent, the technology could usher in a new class of portable and wearable electronic gizmos such as earrings that deliver sounds sent from a phone worn on the belt, and special spectacles with screens that flash up accompanying images and video footage.Linking electronic devices raises other possibilities. Gadget lovers could use a single keypad to operate their phone, PDA and MP3 music player, or combine the output of their watch, pager and radio into a single speaker. At its most far-reaching, the technology could combine with chips and sensors fitted around our bodies and clothes to sense and react to the changing circumstances of our everyday lives.Chris Baber, an expert in wearable computers at the University of Birmingham, said: "You could tailor your technology in the same way that you tailor your clothes. Because you put different clothes on for different occasions, if you didn't want to be contacted by work people while you're socialising then your casual jacket could tell your phone not to accept business calls. Equally you might not want your phone to give you text alerts about football while you're in an important business meeting."The technology also raises the prospect of an array of sensors fitted around the body to monitor health. Earrings could read pulse rate and a bracelet monitor the composition of your sweat. Together with other medical information this would be sent via the skin to a central chip and, when you shook hands with your doctor, be instantly transmitted through your hand to theirs, and then onto their computer to update your records before you even sat down. According to the patent, a num ber of different devices could be powered from a single power source strapped to the skin. And, already dominant in the world of computers, Microsoft has now set its sights on the animal kingdom. "It will be apparent that the body may be that of a wide variety of living animals," the patent says.Different technologies can already link various electronic devices to form a so-called personal area network (PAN), but 
 Microsoft says sending signals through the skin avoids problems that plague existing techniques. Unlike radio signal networks such as Bluetooth, common on laptops, there should be no interference from other sources, and it should be more secure because nobody can eavesdrop.The patent says the body could generate the power needed to run its various attached devices in a similar way to self-winding watches.Most futuristically, it proposes that an area of skin could even act as a keypad: "The physical resistance offered by the human body can be used in implement ing a keypad or other input device. By varying the distance on the skin between the contacts corresponding to different keys, different signal values can be generated representing different inputs." In other words, you could type by tapping on your forearm.Many experts in the field were surprised that Microsoft has been granted the patent, as IBM has already demonstrated that data can be transmitted through the human body, as well as between individuals. In 1996, the company unveiled a prototype PAN at the Comdex trade show that allowed two people to exchange busi ness card details to each other electronically with a handshake. A spokesman for IBM confirmed the company had filed several patents in the area, but said its research has since moved on.Some civil liberties groups have expressed concern over Microsoft's move. "Body parts, in this case skin, should not be in any way patentable," said Jim Thomas of the ETC group, which monitors developments in technology. "There are big questions here about whether individuals will be able to refuse this technology if it is used in, for example, tracking devices."
The board of dotcom star turned bombed-out cash shell Baltimore Technologies yesterday fought for their jobs in the face of yet another vote for their removal by rebel shareholder Acquisitor.While the two sides slogged it out at an increasingly acrimonious annual meeting in London's West End, shares in Baltimore fell 10% after the firm admitted it faces a lawsuit from rival Earthport claiming &#163;4.5m of its precious cash.Baltimore, which has about &#163;22.7m in the bank, has already promised to return &#163;10m to shareholders after management was forced to ditch plans to turn it into a green energy firm because of Acquisitor's objections. After Baltimore has paid off its creditors, the Earthport claim could leave it several million pounds in the red.At a three-hour meeting yesterday - at which Acquisitor pressed for the removal of the board in favour of its own people - Baltimore's chairman, Bijan Khezri, told shareholders to be cautious about   the size of the Earthport claim. In order to negotiate an out of court settlement, "it is not very unusual for someone who thinks they have a claim to make it as big as possible", he told the meeting of less than 100 investors.Earthport's claim relates to agreements in March 2001 under which Baltimore was to supply its internet security software and services to the electronic payments company. Earthport maintains that Baltimore broke the contract.Baltimore's annual meeting - which was followed by an extraordinary meeting also requested by Acquisitor to remove the board - was heated, with shareholders venting their frustration at the board and Acquisitor, which holds about 26% of the business.One shareholder blasted Acquisitor for not having any plan for the business if it achieves control. "You are just telling us you'd like us for breakfast, lunch and dinner," he said. Acquisitor's deputy chairman, Duncan Soukup, hit back, saying, "you've already been had for breakfast, lunch and dinner" by the current board.After repeated interruptions from the floor by Mr Soukup, Mr Khezri snapped back: "You're saying you do not want to get involved in a pissing match ... the reality is you have been creating it." Mr Soukup replied that he would not be taking up a proffered place as a non-executive director with Baltimore because "I would rather stick pins in my eyes".The results of the votes taken at both meetings to oust the Baltimore board will be announced today. With counting still going on last night, the vote appeared finely balanced.
The BBC's governors were criticised yesterday for failing to ensure that the corporation's extensive online operation fulfils its public service aims.A long-awaited report by former Trinity Mirror chief executive Philip Graf, commissioned by the government, found governors had lacked the necessary experience and independent expert support when regulating the BBC's new media expansions.To address the concerns, Mr Graf recommended that the Department for Culture, Media and Sport appoint a governor with new media experience and a second with a competition law background.In his report, Mr Graf said the remit for the BBC's online presence, which runs to 20,000 websites, had been too widely drawn and then broadly interpreted; it should prioritise coverage of news, current affairs and education. In the last annual report, the BBC said it spent &#163;72m on online services; Mr Graf said the figure was nearer &#163;90m after distribution and other costs were taken into account.The BBC promised it would draw up a tighter remit and announced the closure of five portals, including the Fantasy Football and Pure Soap sites.While Mr Graf said it was impossible to prove whetherwww.bbc.co.ukhad forced competitors out of the market, it might have deterred investment by rivals. In future, if there is a "close call" between the public service value of a planned online service and the costs involved, the service should not be approved.He criticised the bbc.co.uk home page - which has since been revamped - but praised the site as "impressive in terms of its breadth, depth and technical capabilities". He added: "I found clear evidence of innovation and creativity, and this must not be lost."The report said bbc.co.uk needed a "strong and credible" regulatory regime. Mr Graf told the Guardian: "It's a developing area, a complex area. If you look at where the governors come from at the moment, they are not well equipped to be at home in this area."In a statement, the governors said the report contained "sensible recommendations" that would be addressed in a formal response to the DCMS by October. They pointed out that last week BBC chairman Michael Grade announced the establishment of a well-resourced governance unit that would provide them with greater independent support.Among its immediate responses, the BBC said the remit of some sites would be narrowed to boost their public service value. Regional entertainment listings, criticised by Mr Graf and a point of contention with local newspaper groups, will be reviewed with a view to setting up partnerships with the regional press.The website closures represent between 1% and 2% of the traffic to the corporation's online services but Ashley Highfield, the BBC's director of new media, said the move was substantive. "A couple of them are pretty popular. We have not picked sites that nobody uses."The BBC governors would draw up a service licence for bbc.co.uk as part of the wider reforms of governance and accountability announced last week. The licence will set the remit and purpose of BBC online, with targets against which the service could be regulated.He promised to consider the recommendation that 25% of online content, apart from news, be sourced from outside the BBC, and to build a better relationship with the industry.The report was welcomed by BBC rivals. Hugo Drayton, chairman of the British Internet Providers' Association, said it was a "triumph" after six years of lobbying. He said Bipa did not oppose BBC online in principle but wanted clear limits and better regulation.He added: "They have asked for an independent new media specialist to advise the board of governors. Who would be better than somebody who has spent the last six years fighting them? I am looking forward to becoming a BBC governor."Report and retort: Graf and the corporationBBC's original online remit&#183;To act as an essential resource offering wide-ranging, unique content&#183;To use the internet to forge a new relationship with licence-payers and strengthen accountability&#183;To provide a home for licence-payers on the internet and act as a trusted guide to the new media environmentGraf reportRemitRecommendationsThe original remit was widely drawn and widely interpreted, with BBC online's role in helping counter the digital divide described in the report as "largely self-appointed". There is a "fundamental lack of trust in the BBC online regime among external stakeholders". The links policy is "unfair and discriminatory", some sites are hard to justify in terms of the BBC's public service remit, and industry communication has been poor.BBC responseAgreed to redraw the bbc.co.uk remit and close five websites - soap, windsurfing, fantasy football, the games portal and the central what's on listings. The remit of others will be narrowed or refocused to make them more public service-orientated. Links policy to be overhauled.PerformanceGrafContent is impressive: "The  BBC delivers high-quality material in an effective and user-friendly manner." Technical innovations such as the popular BBC Radio Player are of a high standard. But a confusing management structure makes for, at worst, a "recipe for dodged responsibility when dealing with third parties". The BBC should set a target of sourcing 25% of online content from outside suppliers, except for news. Partnerships and feedback routes should be improved.BBCAgreed to put in place a new partnership policy and consider the 25% target, but concerned about being forced into sourcing content in areas where there is little outside expertise.Market impactGrafImpossible to prove or disprove the hypothesis that the BBC's online services have had an adverse market impact, although are "unlikely" to have eliminated effective competition. BBC online services will have "stimulated some internet take-up" but made "no significant impact" in this regard. A deliberate "precautionary approach" should be adopted to new investment: "If there is a close call between the public service benefits of a proposed BBC online service and the costs of that service, the proposal should not be taken forward."BBCThe new public value test, announced by chairman Michael Grade last week, will be applied to the whole of BBC online. Director-general Mark Thompson said last week that the BBC should be as small as possible to fulfil its remit - this will apply to www.bbc.co.uk equally. The BBC insists that www.bbc.co.uk does drive internet take-up.Governance and accountabilityGrafStrong criticism of the BBC governors' role in overseeing www.bbc.co.uk. Present system needs to be reinforced, says Graf. "I find it hard to see how the governors have been able to ensure that BBC online's strategy and services have, at all times, focused sufficiently on the service's stated core purposes. The time, knowledge and independent advice available to the board of governors have not, in my opinion, been enough to ensure the proper oversight of the service." Two new governors should be appointed, one with new media experience and another with competition law experience. The governors should have access to independent analytical advice. Wider questions of BBC governance should be considered as part of the charter review process.BBCThe Grade reforms will give the governors more independent advice, with their own well-resourced unit able to commission outside research. The proposal for governors with specific experience will be considered in consultation with the Department for Culture, Media and Sport, which makes the appointments.
"A coalition of lawyers, researchers and software experts formed by the Electronic Frontier Foundation will try to overturn 10 Internet and software-related patents that the group says are so sweeping they threaten innovation. While most of the patents are held by little-known companies, two industry leaders have also been named: Clear Channel, which has patented a way to distribute recordings of concerts within minutes after they end, and Nintendo, whose patents include some concerning platform software for hand-held games. The list also includes one individual," reportsThe New York Times."The list of targets was drawn from 200 submissions solicited through the Web site of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, based in San Francisco. It includes patents covering telephone calls over the Internet, streaming audio and video, and online testing."
Tom Reynolds says that he is extremely shy, can't write for toffee and his life isn't that interesting. So how did he end up writing one of the most gripping blogs around?The Londoner's blog,Random Acts of Reality, charts the ups and downs of his life as an emergency medical technician, or EMT, for the ambulance service.Since he started blogging a year ago, Reynolds has built up a dedicated audience who have been absorbed by his accounts of dealing withknife fights,spurious call-outsandlittle old ladies grabbing his testicles.In March this year, a man with Aidscoughed vomit and blood into Reynolds' mouth, sentencing him to three months of nagging worry that he could be HIV positive. Reynolds' concerned readers waited with him as he detailed the hideous side-effects of the cocktail of antiretroviral drugs he had to take following the incident. On June 25 he discovered that his blood tests had come back negative.It's not only the life-and-death subject matter that has kept readers hungry for updates; despite claiming that he is "absolutely rubbish" at writing, Reynolds has a deft turn of phrase coupled with a black sense of humour.Here, for instance, is his account of dealing with a well-built patient: "To say it was a struggle to get him on the back of the ambulance is to say that Paris Hilton has appeared on the internet." After a haircut he reports: "The best I can say is that I'm not having to brush my hair out my eyes with a pair of gloves covered in someone else's vomit."In person Reynolds is softly-spoken and incredibly self-effacing about the quality of Random Acts of Reality: the one thing he is right about is that he's a little shy around strangers. He decided to start blogging after reading the likes ofboing boing: "I thought, Well I'll give it a go and see if anyone's interested in what I am writing about."I still don't believe that people think I am a good writer  - honestly, it's not modesty, I look at &#91;my posts&#93; and think, oh god I've used too many commas ... the only thing is I write fairly plainly. I think that's the main thing."As far as he knows, Reynolds is the only UK ambulance worker with a blog, although he has met US paramedics by joiningEmergiblogs, a US-dominated blog ring devoted to blogs by emergency medical workers.This means he is entering uncharted waters in attempting to maintain patient confidentiality, while trying to lay out the day-to-day realities of life in the London Ambulance Service (LAS). Reynolds is extremely careful to avoid revealing the identities of either his crewmates or the people who end up in the back of his ambulance.He's very clear that the views he expresses via his blog aren't those of the NHS or the LAS; the only issue he'd like to hammer home is  the misuse of the emergency services and the lack of out-of-hours GP cover, that often results in unnecessary call-outs: "If I can get one person to not call an ambulance out at four o'clock in the morning because they've had seven days' bellyache then it'll be well worth it," he says.Blogging isn't only an engaging occupation during the small hours, when Reynolds is often rendered sleepless by the disorientation of shift work; it's also a way of relieving stress via a rant or moan: "I must admit, all ambulance personnel like to moan. They do like to moan and whine and whinge and I think I've just managed to find a slightly bigger audience," Reynolds says, with his tongue ever-so-slightly inserted in his cheek.     Reynolds pays $10 (£5) a month to a service calledMyOstrichto host Random Acts of Reality, a sum he says is tiny for the amount of enjoyment and  number of friends he's gained."Sometimes you're up at four o'clock in the morning with nothing to do, and that's quite helpful in the whole internet culture because now I have friends in every time zone you can imagine."It helps that I don't have any distractions like family or pets," he adds.But what comes across most forcefully in his blog posts is how much Reynolds loves his job, regardless of the vomit, the threat of violence, the backbreaking work of carrying patients down stairs and the exhausting shift patterns.So much so that he says he wouldn't give up the work he loves, even if a juicy offer to turn his blog into a book came his way."It is a good job - you can go home at the end of the day and think, yes, I've done something really worthwhile today. I might not get paid the best, I might not get the accolades footballers get, but I've actually done some good and made a difference."
It has long been received wisdom that the majority of MPs' websites are among the most boring on the net. Too many static pages and too little interactivity have often meant that few sites enjoy any sort of significant online audience.Now, the company that has built websites for over 400 members of parliament, has announced the results of a pilot scheme that could open up more of the working of MPs to a greater number of their online constituents. ePolitix.com, the online arm of the venerable Dod's Parliamentary Communication, launchedConstituency Forumover a light finger-buffet in the Commons on Thursday.Constituency Forum promises to bring a greater level of interactivity to MPs' websites. Essentially a debating tool, it is a piece software that allows constituents to participate in online debates on their local MP's website. A postcode registration system will aim to ensure that only local people can take part. The nature of the forum will be instigated by the MPs and their staff - usually in the form of a weekly essay  - and MPs will also be able to vet the comments posted on their sites.During the pilot phase, which involved MPs from the three main parties in Dumbarton, Reigate and Yeovil, over a 100 members of the public signed up in each constituency. A debate that could fit into a church hall, perhaps, but an independent audit by Salford University found that nearly a third of the participants were new to politics in the sense that they hadn't ever contacted an MP before. The company plans to extend the service to the 407 MPs whose websites they built, although a precise roll-out date has yet to be set.The launch of the initiative came in the week that the parliamentary modernisation select committee called for greater "interaction between the public and parliament as an institution." It also follows in the wake of a number of independent sites, includingTheyWorkForYou.comandDowningStreetSays.com, which have recently done much to open up British politics to an online audience."MP websites in the past have been a one-way form of communication," says Michael Hepburn, managing director of ePolitix.com. "It's been the MP telling you: 'This is who I am, here are my press releases, here are the hours of my constituency surgery.' We talked to a lot of MPs and they said they would love to use the internet and email to have a form of two-way communication with constituents, but  haven't got the resources to do it."While an approach like Constituency Forum will undoubtedly make MPs websites more interactive, the initiative falls short of the full-blown interactive weblogs that have so much to re-engage the American body politic during the run-up to this year's presidential elections. Constituency Forum also relies on old-fashioned media - radio and local newspapers - for its promotion.But will our overworked MPs actually have time to read the online outpourings of their constituents? "It is important that your staff work in tandem on the project," says John McFall, Labour MP for Dumbarton who took part in the pilot scheme. "And you get a strategic sense of the output. But for the pilot study I read every email.""It's proactive rather than reactive," says Huddersfield MP Barry Sheerman who recently incorporated many of Constituency Forum's features on his site. "What this does is create a scheme where we decide we are going to consult, say 14-19 year olds, put it out on the site and get a much more targeted response. That's the quality of it. You can build up a rapport with an increasing number of people at the touch of a button ... It certainly beats knocking on doors. "But the initiative drew some derision last week from independent political bloggers. "It amounts to 'talk amongst yourselves' basically," says Tim Ireland, who built the pioneering weblog for Labour's Tom Watson, and more recently started a trend of "cyber stalking" weblogs dedicated to MPs who fail to support truly interactive websites. "The mark of a lazy MP is just to put their profile on the ePolitix site and on the party website and go no further. It sounds as if they are reading the bare minimum."The whole idea of a weblog is to enable a personal connection between a representative and their constituents and to make it as accessible as possible. This is just another version of the big conversation."
"The BBC has been ordered to revamp its online unit after a report found that some of its Internet offerings compete too closely with commercial Web sites. Culture Secretary Tessa Jowell has given the publicly funded broadcaster four months to redefine its remit for online services after the findings by former Trinity Mirror chief Philip Graf were released Monday," reportsReuters."Graf singled out BBC Online's fantasy football and entertainment listings, saying they were not 'sufficiently distinctive from commercial alternatives, or were inadequately associated with public service purposes.' The BBC said it would close the fantasy football and entertainment sites, as well as sites dedicated to surfing, online games and soap operas."
TheMercury Newshas a story about theXangablogging and blogring site, used mainly by teenagers.
While many people are still getting their heads around IPv6, there's a report that China may be jumping to its own version 9. SeeSlashdotfor a discussion (scroll down -- someone has posted the text of the report).
"Microsoft Corp released a free software update yesterday to close vulnerabilities that left users of its Internet Explorer browser open to attacks by hackers. The security breach, discovered last week, made it possible for users of Microsoft's ubiquitous Web browser to have their passwords and private account information stolen when they logged on to banking sites," reportsThe Washington Post."Microsoft's update turns off a function within the Windows operating system instead of repairing the flaw in that function. Stephen Toulouse, security program manager in Microsoft's Security Response Center, said the company is working on a patch to fix that vulnerability."Comment:The update is available fromhttp://www.microsoft.com/security/incident/download_ject.mspx.
The government has ordered the BBC to redefine the remit of its online services after an independent report into its internet activities said many of the corporation's websites were too commercial and should be closed.In a long awaited report, headed by former Trinity Mirror chief executive Philip Graf, the BBC was told it had four months to respond to criticisms that parts of its vast online service could not be justified by its public service remit.Sites covering areas such as fantasy football and local entertainment listings were not "sufficiently distinctive from commercial alternatives, or were inadequately associated with public service purpose to be justified by the remit" said Mr Graf.The culture secretary, Tessa Jowell, who commissioned Mr Graf 18 months ago to conduct a thorough investigation, has given the BBC governors four months to come up with a response."It is now up to the governors to respond on how they plan to redefine the purposes and aims of BBC Online, so that they are more closely aligned to the public service remit of the BBC," she said.Ms Jowell commissioned the report after commercial rivals said the BBC had a negative impact on the market, "distorting" the chances of commercial sites to survive.Newspaper groups including the Guardian and Telegraph have been critical of the BBC's unfettered expansion in online activities, with vast resources allowing the corporation to offer an unrivalled depth and range of services.Mr Graf said in his report there was evidence that BBC websites reduced competition but little evidence to suggest they had a negative impact on the whole of the internet market."There were indications that BBC Online may have an adverse impact on competition, particularly by deterring investment by commercial operators that would have led to new forms of competition," the report said.Among the sites that have proved controversial include a parenting service, which has no link to any programme on BBC radio or TV. Critics have also singled out games sites as not being worthy of licence fee money.In its submission to the Graf report, the British Internet Publishers Association - which includes the Guardian - said the BBC had broken a "broken a catalogue of promises", spending up to £100m a year on its internet services instead of an agreed £21m budget.BIPA's submission said the corporation has ignored all of its undertakings - including a promise to limit its budget to £21m a year, to focus on education and not to have a negative impact on the marketplace.Hugo Drayton, the former Telegraph internet boss and now managing director of the Telegraph Group, said: "BIPA has exposed a catalogue of broken promises by the BBC and has provided the Graf review with detailed evidence to show how far the BBC has strayed from its own public service remit, and how it has damaged the delivery of consumer choice."BIPA's 12-point plan of action for the BBC includes setting stringent public service boundaries for its web services and making media regulator Ofcom responsible for its regulation.The group also suggests the BBC should create links on its websites to its commercial rivals' services instead of trying to replicate the services, and that the corporation should list all of its online activities separately in its annual report and accounts.In an attempt to persuade the government that the BBC was not "completely undermining" its commercial rivals, Ashley Highfield, the BBC head of new media, commissioned a report from KMPG, claiming its impact on commercial rivals amounted to just £4m a year.But while conceding that the BBC website, the most popular in Britain, takes some users away from commercial rivals, the report suggests the impact on advertising revenues represents just £4m out of a total UK online market of £7.6bn.And it adds that the BBC may have boosted advertiser-funded sites by getting up to 2 million people to use the internet who would not have otherwise connected.The BBC governors said they would make a full response to the report by the end of October."Philip Graf recommends various changes in the BBC's governance and accountability arrangements: his central recommendation being that the board of governors should have access to more expert, and more independent advice to assist governors in their scrutiny of bbc.co.uk," the governors said in a statement.The governors added that BBC Online's activities would be henceforth subject to the same public value test as the rest of the corporation."The board will measure the performance of all BBC services against four criteria to determine the public value of BBC services. These are: reach, quality, value for money, and market impact."However, the governors argued that Mr Graf's report was in the main upbeat about BBC Online."He is generally positive about the distinctiveness of its content and its impact on commercial competitors."&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
"French physicists have figured out how to rap on tabletops to communicate with CD's, lights or most other nearby electric or electronic devices. The inexpensive new technology has the potential to turn kitchen tables, desks, windows or other rigid surfaces into remote control panels with hundreds of touch-sensitive spots, reportsThe New York Times."The technology uses small inexpensive sensors [accelerometers] attached to the table or window to pick up the vibrations, which are sent to the audio input of the computer for analysis to reveal the exact location of each tap."
"The several available applications of the technology work on the same basic principle: that the human voice contains telltale signals that betray a speaker's emotional state, like the intent to deceive. By analyzing small, often inaudible changes in the voice and visually displaying them on a computer screen, the techniques are thought to recognize not only veracity, but also a gamut of emotions ranging from anxiety to arousal," reportsThe New York Tmes."In Britain, a growing number of insurance companies have been using it to screen telephone claims in hopes of rooting out fraud - a goal they say has been borne out, both in fraud detection and in deterrence. One insurer, Admiral, says 25 percent of its car-theft claims have been withdrawn since it began using the system a year ago."
Thousands of internet users are unwittingly running up big telephone bills after falling victim to a new web scam which tricks home computers into dialling costly premium-rate lines.The number of "rogue diallers" infecting PCs has snowballed in recent weeks, with some households hit for bills of more than &#163;1,000. Many have only discovered in the last few days that the virus has infected their computer after receiving their telephone bill.The switchboard at pre mium-rate line regulator Icstis was jammed every day this week with calls from angry internet users. The regulator admitted yesterday that it had been "overwhelmed" and is considering pulling the plug on all premium-rate lines.The virus can be activated by closing an unwanted "pop-up" window on an internet screen. This sends a message to the computer, changing its usual log-on settings. It then surreptitiously diverts the connection into a premium-rate line, typically at &#163;1.50 a minute.The calls, which all begin with an 090, terminate in locations such as Moldova and   the British Virgin Islands, according to Icstis. It is formally investigating 15 telecom companies but is understood to be looking at many more.Icstis said it had received more than 10,000 complaints about rogue diallers - and estimates that consumers have already lost as much as &#163;10m.The main telecom providers, BT and NTL, are refusing to compensate customers, arguing that they simply provide the infrastructure and cannot be held responsible for fraudulent activity over the net.An emergency warning about premium rate diallers on the Icstis website   (icstis.org.uk) says: "As the regulator, we are not responsible for resolving disputes over bill payments. Whilst we are able to supply the name and address details for the service provider, there is nothing further Icstis can do to help you obtain a refund."Households are being told to seek compensation by writing to the operators despite the fact that most are based in obscure offshore locations.Industry insiders blame the growing problem on recent EU e-commerce legislation which liberalised the internet market and relaxed registration safeguards and the vet ting of international premium-rate lines.Until this week BT said it could not block any premium- rate lines without the completion of a full investigation by Icstis. But stung by criticism that it is profiting from the scam - the carrier picks up &#163;1.85 from every &#163;100 in premium rate revenue - BT said it will actively block lines when it receives complaints from the public and pay its share of revenue to charity.BT group managing director (consumer) Gavin Patterson said: "We need to minimise the number of customers being affected quickly and we   can't allow any more of our customers to fall victim."Icstis says it is installing new switchboard capacity and hiring advisers to deal with the surge in unanswered calls.It has also shelved earlier proposals to raise the maximum per-minute charge on premium-rate lines to &#163;5.Liberal Democrat MP Norman Lamb called for more aggressive regulatory action, such as a bonding scheme for premium-rate operators. "It's a criminal offence and the criminals should be tracked down and prosecuted," he said.
How would you like to take delivery of a brand new car every year or 18 months, and pay less in monthly repayments than someone buying new?If that does appeal, then consider leasing your next car. This has long been the preferred solution for businesses that give employees company vehicles.For a set monthly fee, they effectively "rent" the car for a fixed period, usually between one and three years, and at the end of the term simply hand it back.The idea is being adopted by many drivers choosing to opt out of a company car scheme. However, it has generally been avoided by private motorists, still emotionally attached to the idea of buying.But according to our figures, many private motorists would be better off leasing. In purely economic terms, there is little difference to buying on finance.You make the monthly payments but the lease company is the one suffering the depreciation, and the headache of disposing of the vehicle at the end.The only difference is that it is often considerably cheaper to lease a car than to buy. One reason is that several car manufacturers sell cars to leasing companies at big discountsLast week Worcestershire-based leasing firm Direct Cars UK was offering a new five-door Citroen Picasso HDI for &#163;235 a month over 18 months.This is substantially less than finance - and the &#163;4,230 total is not much more than you would have lost had you bought the car and traded it in at the end of the term.The price assumes you will drive fewer than 10,000 miles a year and includes car tax and delivery. You have to pay two months up front as a deposit - and stump up for insurance and servicing.Alternatively, if you take a Renault Scenic (diesel) over two years, the payments are &#163;211 a month. This model would cost around &#163;13,000 new after discounts.If you borrowed that amount from the Alliance &amp; Leicester (at 5.9%) over five years you would pay &#163;250 a month without protection, or &#163;293 with it. At the end of the 60 months, your five-year-old car will probably be worth less than &#163;3,000.You can sometimes get lease payments down even further if you are prepared to take a nearly new car.Lex Leasing, for example, can typically deliver an eight-month-old car with 5,000 miles on the clock.But be warned, there are drawbacks. According to John Maslen, editor of Fleet News, leasing only offers cheaper motoring provided you fit certain criteria."Until now, private car buyers have shied away from leasing because you effectively own nothing at the end of the three-year period.Leasing is very popular among private buyers in America, but it is not perfect for everyone here. "When you take out the lease you are required to predict how many miles you will cover over the period of the lease - that's fine if your mileage doesn't change. But go over that amount and you are liable for extra charges (typically 5-7p a mile) which can really add up.Most people get into problems if they move house or change jobs, and suddenly face a much longer journey to work."Mr Maslen says business customers collectively paid out more than &#163;100m in add-on charges last year, partly down to excess mileage charges, but also due to damage. The terms of the lease require that you return the car with fair wear and tear.If your child throws up over the seats and rips the upholstery, you may be hit by a repair bill. Similarly, minor dents have to ironed out before the vehicle goes back.He suggests that private motorists should try to lease cars from companies that are members of the British Vehicle Renting &amp; Leasing Association, as this sets out in great detail (including photos) what is, and what isn't, considered "fair wear". A spokes woman for Direct Cars UK says leaseholders can sometimes renegotiate the terms of the lease if a change in their personal circumstance means they will exceed their mileage limit - it is worth asking whether this will be possible before signing the lease agreement.One good thing about leasing is that you have an extra level of protection if the car goes wrong.Your contract is with the lease company and you can reject it if it keeps breaking down - it is then up to lease company to sort out any problems with the manufacturer.Two final things to note. You have to get the car serviced in line with the servicing schedule set out by the manufacturer - just as you would if you owned the car. Lastly, make sure any quotes include VAT - lots of companies don't include it in their literature.
Two Pacific island countries have become global centres of the internet porn industry, according to a new report.The report, by US-based consultants Secure Computing, said Niue and Tonga together provide addresses for almost as many pornographic web pages as the whole of Asia and Latin America. It alleges that Niue hosts 2.9 million porn pages, while the Netherlands has only 1.9 million.The allegations have caused uproar, with one company threatening legal action against the authors.Most of the modern Pacific is deeply religious and bans the import and ownership of pornography. Reverend Teleke Lauti, of the Church of Tuvalu, told Australian Broadcasting Corporation radio that he was shocked by the report."I was so surprised because we thought our country was remote from those developments ... I know it's a money   business, but I think it doesn't carry the good name of the country if we try to use that business," he said.Reverend Matagi Vilitama, of Niue's National Council of Churches, said he would protest to the government. "I think it is truly appaling for a Christian country like ours to have so many pornography sites," he told ABC.The domain names of Tonga, Tuvalu and Vanuatu were also alleged to have hundreds of thousands of pornographic pages, as were the Australian territories of Christmas Island and Cocos Island.The Pacific came second only to Europe as an address for pornographic web pages, although sites hosted in the US were excluded.Domain names - the two-letter country codes at the end of non-US website addresses - have become a significant source of revenue for Pacific islands.Niue, a coral island of 1,600 people whose main income is aid from New Zealand, last year became the first country in the world to have free, nationwide internet access, thanks to sales of the .nu domain.Tuvalu has built roads, hospitals and schools with the &#163;22m proceeds from leasing the rights to its .tv domain to a Silicon Valley firm.NU Domain, the US-based company that manages Niue's domain registry, is planning to sue the authors of the report for defamation."There are no such pornographic web pages being hosted in Niue, or by the .nu top-level domain, nor were there ever any such web pages," said the company's founder and president, Bill Semich.A search yesterday turned up hundreds of pornographic sites under the .nu banner.
The banking industry has expanded its blacklist of internet businesses in an attempt to ban websites which trade in images of sexual violence, racism or terrorism from using its credit cards.The new guidelines were issued this week by the Association for Payment Clearing Services (Apacs), which is also trying to remove credit cards from customers who use them to purchase pictures from illegal child pornography sites.The moves reflect fears that the global reach of the internet, combined with the purchasing power of internationally branded credit cards, is fuelling the traffic in "extreme" images, as well as outlawed obscenities.In the US, the Christian right has been pressing financial institutions to go even further and cut their commercial links with adult pornographic sites.The extended Apacs guidelines, which are advisory rather than binding, were introduced after a Westminster Hall debate in parliament earlier this summer which voiced concerns about the availability of violent sexual images on the internet.Among those who called for a ban on sites promoting violent pornography was Liz Longhurst, 72, the mother of murdered Brighton teacher Jane Longhurst. She has demanded the removal of sites that feature images of necrophilia and dead women - such as those viewed by her daughter's killer, the musician Graham Coutts, hours before he strangled Jane.In the debate, David Lepper, the Labour MP for Brighton, Pavilion, suggested that another means of tackling the problem would be to encourage credit card companies to put "a financial squeeze on the providers of extreme images".Tim Loughton, Conservative MP for East Worthing and Shoreham, also warned about reports that "people who have been convicted of buying child pornography with their credit cards are being rearrested for committing the same offence with the same credit card."The Home Office's response has been that there is a lack of international agreement on what constitute obscene, and therefore illegal, images. Most of the sites carrying such images are registered abroad and not subject to UK law.The new Apacs guidelines state: "Banks provide facilities to internet merchants that enable them to accept card payments for content and merchandise. &#91;We&#93; deplore the abuse of these facilities on ethical, legal and sound business grounds."Banks will not knowingly do business with internet sites that sell content/merchandise inciting, advocating or perpetuating activities such as child pornography, racism, terrorism and violence against persons, including scenes of sexual violence."The ban on dealing with sites selling illegal child pornography is already in force.The guidelines do not offer a definition of what constitutes "violence against persons"."We are not setting ourselves up as moral arbiters," said Sandra Quinn, a spokeswoman for APACS, the umbrella body which represents the major banks and buildings societies. "But we have to be sure we are doing all we can about preventing the spread of such extreme images."We had no objections from our members on the grounds of &#91;whether this was&#93; censorship. But we don't want to be any more prescriptive. It's a grey area."Different banks already have different policies towards licensing their credit card brands. American Express, for example, does not allow adult pornography sites to use its cards for payments.Apacs has written to the Department of Constitutional Affairs requesting changes to the Data Protection Act which prevents the police from passing on to banks the identity of customers investigated for purchasing pornographic images of children.
