Motorola's handset business will not get preferential treatment once its acquisition by Google is completed, Eric Schmidt has insisted, as he sought to allay worries among partners using Google's Android mobile software."In general, with all of our partners, we told them that the Motorola deal will close and we will run it sufficiently and independently, that it will not violate the openness of Android … we're not going to change in any material way the way we operate," Eric Schmidt told reporters on a visit to South Korea on Tuesday.Google isbuying the loss-making Motorola Mobiility for $12.5bn(£7.8bn) following a bidding war in August in which Motorola's chief executive Sanjay Jha persuaded Google chief executive Larry Page to push up the bidding price for the company by a third by suggesting Motorola Mobility, spun off from the larger Motorola company only in January, might use its patent portfolio to sue other Android handset makers, or defect to Microsoft's Windows Phone platform.Schmidt's comment on Tuesday were seen as trying to persuade companies such as Samsung, the world's largest smartphone maker, and HTC – which arelocked in patent disputes with Apple, which is seeking to restrict what it sees as infringement of its intellectual property by Android implementations – that Google will in effect defend them by using Motorola's huge patent portfolio.However, Schmidt declined to comment on reports that Steve Jobs, the Apple co-founder and former chief executive who died in October, had threatened him over what he saw as patent infringement by Android phones and that Android had "ripped off" the iPhone."The Android effort started before the iPhone effort," Schmidt said. "I've decided not to comment on what's been written in a book after his death. Steve is a fantastic human being and someone who I miss very dearly. As a general comment, I think most people would agree that Google is a great innovator and I would also point out that the Android effort started before the iPhone effort," Schmidt said.In his authorised biography released last month, Jobssaid, "I will spend my last dying breath if I need to … to right this wrong. I'm going to destroy Android, because it's a stolen product. I'm willing to go to thermonuclear war on this."The acquisition of Motorola, which will be the first hardware business that Google has bought in its history, could pose a cultural challenge: Motorola Mobility presently had 19,000 employees, compared with 31,000 for Google, which generates about $29bn in annual revenues compared to Motorola's $11bn.Schmidt, in his second visit to Korea, met executives from handset manufacturers Samsung and LG Electronics as well as mobile carriers SK Telecom, KT Corp and LG Uplus.He also met South Korean president Lee Myung-bak and said Google will open a channel dedicated to Korean pop music on YouTube, Google's video-sharing website, to help spread the "Korean wave," the presidential office said on Monday.Schmidt's Asian tour later includes Taipei and Beijing.
I think a game about shooting stuff was released today. Contemporary Battlefare? Or something? Anyone heard of it?
English astronomer and mathematician Edmond Halley has been given the Google Doodle seal of approval to mark his 355th birthday.Google artists have created a logo depicting planets and rockets to celebrate the life of the man who was the first to calculate the orbit of the comet later named after him.London-born Halley, a graduate of Queen's College, Oxford, dedicated most of his life to astronomy and compiled a catalogue charting the location of stars in the southern hemisphere that was the first to contain telescopically determined locations.In 1705, he published 'A Synopsis of the Astronomy of Comets' in which he depicted the parabolic orbits of 24 comets that had been observed from 1337 to 1698.In his dossier, he showed that the three historic comets of 1531, 1607 and 1682 were so similar that they must be the same comet and accurately predicted it would return in 1758. It is now known as Halley's comet.In 1720, Halley succeeded John Flamsteed to become the second appointed Astronomer Royal in Greenwich, a position which he held until his death on 14 January 1742.He was married to Mary Tooke and the couple had three children.• This article was amended on 8 November 2011 because the original said the doodle marked Edmond Halley's 335th birthday. This has been corrected.
Monday night saw the games industry's  annual occupation of the focal point of pop culture: the launch of a new Call of Duty game, this time subtitled Modern Warfare 3.Following a celebrity-studded launch party at London's Old Billingsgate Market, featuring a PA from chart-topping rapper Example, 574 Game and Gamestation stores across the country opened specially to sell the first copies of Modern Warfare 3 to punters queuing outside.They could find themselves participants in a new world record: last year's Call of Duty game, Black Ops, set an entertainment-industry record for most revenue generated in its opening five days, bringing in a staggering $650m (£405m). Publisher Activision says that it has taken more pre-orders for Modern Warfare 3 than for Black Ops, and the previous record – a mere $550m over five days – was held by, you guessed it, 2009's Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2.The secret to the success of the Call of Duty games – so-called first-person shooters – is two-pronged. When played solo, they provide a cinematic spectacle, studded with explosions, exotic settings and nerve-wracking cliffhangers. But the experience they offer online, when played with or against other humans, is so compelling that they dominate all other games.In the year since Black Ops launched, people have spent more than 2.6bn hours playing it via online services such as Microsoft's Xbox Live and Sony's PlayStation Network. Worldwide, on average, more than 19 million people play a Call of Duty game online every month, and 6.5 million each day.Activisionhas had to work hard to ensure Modern Warfare 3 will continue the Call of Duty legend. In March 2010, Vince Zampella and Jason West, co-founders of Infinity Ward, the developer that makes the Modern Warfare games every two years – developer Treyarch takes up the Call of Duty reins in alternate years – left the firm, taking many staff with them.They set up a new developer called Respawn under the wing of publisher Electronic Arts, Activision's biggest rival. Infinity Ward regrouped, though, teamed up with another developer, Sledgehammer, which was given responsibility for the online side of Modern Warfare 3, and pulled out the stops to create a game which easily meets the franchise's exacting standards – despite the fact that gamers have always considered Infinity Ward's games superior to those crafted by Treyarch.Although Modern Warfare 3 looks like setting a new opening five-day revenue record, it is not certain whether it will outsell Black Ops in the long-term.Nick Parker, director of analyst Parker Consulting, said: "No doubt, even in the current financial climate, Modern Warfare 3's sales will be phenomenal, but this year there is more sales competition from games such as Battlefield 3. The shape of Modern Warfare 3's sales curve could be different to that of Black Ops."Battlefield 3, published byElectronic Arts, tops the games charts and will be the most testing competition Call of Duty has had for years. But Modern Warfare 3 will inevitably outsell it by a considerable margin: the seven existing iterations of the game have sold a combined 100m units worldwide.Activision, recognising Call of Duty as its key intellectual property, has not been shy when it comes to throwing resources at it. More than 200 people spent two years making Modern Warfare 3, and the publisher has splashed out on TV ads running around Champions League and Premier League football matches as well as The X Factor, and a massive billboard and poster campaign.It has worked hard to refresh the online part of the game, in particular, for example by introducing a subscription service to augment Modern Warfare 3 and future games titled Call of Duty: Elite, which offers perks and rewards for committed players, integrates their gameplay with social media and makes it easier for them to play as "clans".If Modern Warfare 3 pulls in more than $650m in the next five days, and hence carves out its niche as a record-breaking entertainment franchise, that work will have been more than worthwhile.
Released last month, the intergalactic colonisation gameLucky Spaceis not like other Facebook management titles. Sure, it looks a little like Zynga's all-conquering Cityville, and it includes a virtual currency – Space Bucks – which can be topped up via in-game payments.But designed by a bunch of ex-staff from companies like EA, Valve, Activision and Sony it seems like a genuine attempt to bring 'hardcore' depth to the social gaming scene. Players are dumped on an uninhabited planet and must build a functioning space base that caters for the needs of the human colonists, while adhering to a workable structure. There's also a plot (following the lives of five different characters as they seek to plunder the planet's resources) and an emphasis on exploration – both elements missing from most Facebook construction sims. And apparently, most players spend over 30 minutes in their first session, which is rare for a social gaming title.It's the visuals that grabbed me though. The neat isometric design recalls the PC sims of the early 2000s – the likes of Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri and Space Colony. Developer,A Bit Lucky, seems to be aiming beyond the current generation of Facebook-squatting Zynga wannabes.Next month, A Bit Lucky is adding a bunch of new features to the game, including multiplayer co-op and competitive challenges, promising a form of gameplay that's not been seen on the platform before. To find out more about the studio and its approach to social game development I spoke to founder and CEO, Frederic Descamps.In what ways are you pushing the Facebook gaming platform technically? You've developed a very fast Flash engine haven't you?Our primary goal at ABL is to produce games that reflect a very high production quality in terms of art, graphics and animation. Our games are also quite powerful from a technical standpoint – Lucky Train and Lucky Space have among the fastest, if notthefastest, graphic engines in Flash on Facebook. We can display a large variety of items and animations on screen – including glow effects, special effects, etc.  In general our game environment feels like a living and breathing place.What were your inspirations for the game? Did you look at PC strategy sims like Civ or Sim City, or at Facebook titles like Farmville? What aspects did you take from those?The true inspiration for Lucky Space is a mix between today's social games and the hardcore PC games of the 1990s. We've also incorporated elements of MMOs in our game.  Some people have commented that the graphics in Lucky Space are reminiscent of Starcraft and that our game is actually a love letter of sorts to sci-fi fans.  It's almost a mini game in itself to identify all the sci-fi references in Lucky Space!It seems the sim element of the game is backed up with a mission structure and an over-arching narrative, which is rare in facebook titles - how challenging was that to implement?You're right - as part of creating a deeper gameplay experience for social gamers we present the players with five different protagonists and each of them has different quests, story lines, and missions we build into the game.  Originally we started building quests in a very mechanical way with the goal of teaching people how to play, but quickly realised that some people were paying a lot of attention to the story and underlying humor.  At this point, we decided to base the game story around these quests. The protagonists along with the quests try to convey a humorous tone.Did you always have more 'hardcore' gamers in mind with this game?We've heard from several players who say that Lucky Space is the first social game that makes them think.  Lucky Space is a complex game with resource management and tech tree elements; it's really aimed at people who enjoy playing the spreadsheet behind the game, people who play to crack the equations to become faster than their friends. The choices they have to make when playing the game do matter.You've gone for a virtual goods freemium model, rather than one that gives players earlier access to premium content - why is this? What drew you to that model?The game is indeed based on the Free to Play model. However we prefer to actually call it Free to Pay – i.e., you have the choice to pay if you want to at any point in the game as there are many ways to play Lucky Space. Gabe Newell, who I consider one of the smartest visionaries in tech and gaming,brought this concept back to centre stage recently. Giving us money is just one way to access a high level of energy or components, or to advance deeper into the game at a faster pace. Also, as compared to our first title Lucky Train, the game is less based on virtual goods and more based on consumables – energy, components, etc...Players are able to visit the bases created by friends and can help each other with missions. How do you ensure this social aspect doesn't become too intrusive? I'm always very wary of playing Facebook titles as I don't want to have to spam friends who aren't playing and aren't interested...We give you the choice to play the game on your own or with friends.  But coming from a hardcore online gaming development background, we know that the most fun players can have is to play with friends. We want to give you the opportunity to do this in Lucky Space in a meaningful way.  To give a more concrete example, we provide a Wish List feature from which you can get components, blue prints, and more from your friends.  We're seeing players coming back and using the Wish Lists which, we hope means they find it a very fulfilling experience to help their friends while playing the game.How have you been affected by the changes in Facebook privacy policies over the last year?The changes that Facebook has made have drastically cut down the ability to acquire users virally. This was a key advantage of the Facebook platform.  It is now extremely hard to reach a high level of users without a large pre-existing userbase or large advertising budgets, like the larger gaming companies have.We completely understand why Facebook made such changes as some of these viral channels were abused to spam all Facebook users, which was in turn detrimental to the user experience.  However, a good question to ask ourselves is – when was the last time you saw an indie hit on Facebook?  This happens routinely on other platforms such as iOS, Steam, Android...  The point is that it's really hard for independent game developers to get any traction on their own. This is an issue that Facebook needs to fix to help smaller developers with potentially great high quality games get discovered.What elements are going to shape Facebook games over the next year?It's really just the beginning of social gaming. The market has been in existence for just four years. Going forward, we're going to see more innovation and more game genres being brought to Facebook.  On the technical side, we see a real yearning for the depth and quality of games seen on other platforms outside of social gaming. Facebook is the largest gaming platform in the world and its future is about encouraging the best possible game developers to come to its platform. The better the quality games, the better retention possibilities exist on the platform. What's very exciting is for us to see the integration of Flash 11 and Unity which in turn allows any Unity game to be ported directly into Flash.Have you thought about any other platforms, such as smartphones and console digital services like PSN or XBLA? Those are become much more social now.We believe the future is "Transplatform Gaming" – the same game should be accessible from multiple platforms... whether it's the full game or selected slices of the game.  As gamers, this is what makes most sense to us.  If you like a game, you should be able to access it via PC, IOS, Android, XBLA, etc.  And as a game developer, you want the widest distribution for your game and to provide players access to your content from wherever they are.Do you have any advice for other small studios looking to create Facebook titles?Look beyond the current top games for inspiration. Don t let yourself be constrained by what people say is possible or is not possible on Facebook, in terms of genres and gameplay mechanics. When we started A Bit Lucky, people told us it was crazy to target anybody but the older female demographics on Facebook or that a train or a space game wouldn t work at all. We were also told that the more you click in your game, the better for the user...You need a publisher to help distribute your game or a number of games live to cross promote players from one game to another. Facebook has changed.  In the past there was a lot of opportunity for free distribution because you could message (spam) your friends like crazy and now you can't do that anymore. Which means your success will be increasingly based on the quality of the games you can put forward and not as much on how you can game the system and spam your friends...
Google has launched its first Google+ feature for big-name brands and businesses to interact with customers, called Google+ Pages.Businesses will be able to set up their own Google+ accounts with the feature, which is the social network's first big venture into an area currently dominated by Facebook.Burberry, Pepsi and Chelsea FC are among the big names to launch a Google+ Page, with marketing messages that will feature in Google's dominant search results.The move is Google's first large-scale attempt to endear its fledgling social network to marketers and advertisers, after it attracted more than 40 million users worldwide since launching in September.Facebook, which connects brands to its hundreds of millions of users through the "Like" button, is estimated to have generated $1.6bn in revenue in the first half of this year, most of which was through advertising.Google+ users can follow their favourite brands and companies by adding them to so-called "circles" alongside existing friends on the website. Using a new "Direct Connect" feature, users will be able to search for a brand at Google.com using the "+" prefix and be taken to the relevant Google+ page, if it exists. For example, a Google search for "+Pepsi" should take users to the Pepsi Google+ page.Announcing the changeson Google's official blog, Vic Gundotra, senior vice-president of engineering, said: "So far Google+ has focused on connecting people with other people. But we want to make sure you can build relationships with all the things you care about – from local businesses to global brands – so today we're rolling out Google+ Pages worldwide."With Google+, we strive to bring the nuance and richness of real-life sharing to software. Today's initial launch of Google+ Pages brings us a little bit closer, but we've still got lots of improvements planned, and miles to go before we sleep. So stay tuned."
Gamers willing to pay above the odds can get their hands on an early copy of this year's must-have game, Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 – if they're willing to pay £60, rather than the £35 it costs online.The games were on sale at least 48 hours ahead of the official embargo, which lifts at midnight on Monday, at Computer eXchange in London's Rathbone Place. Shrinkwrapped copies of the games for both Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 were available in the window at the comparatively high price.Video games stores are expected to open their doors just after midnight on Tuesday morning to satisfy gamers who will have been queuing outside for hours to buy their copies as Modern Warfare 3 officially goes on sale worldwide.But London gamers have been able to buy them from the Computer eXchange chain of stores.When The Guardian's journalist quizzed a shop assistant about the fact that the games were on sale ahead of the worldwide embargo – which publisher Activision has fought hard to maintain, forbidding publications and bloggers from posting reviews online ahead of the release – a shop assistant said that the game was "already on sale in Europe". This however is incorrect. The Guardian believes that Computer eXchange may have acquired advance copies from a European distributor.Computer eXchange declined to answer The Guardian's questions over the phone about where it had got the copies and why it was selling them ahead of the embargo. It requested that questions be sent by email – but had not responded by the time it was told this story would be published.The games industry loves to exercise fine control over when its products go on sale to generate the maximum impact at launch. But its plans are often thwarted.The logistics of getting millions of copies of a game to shops around Europe while ensuring that none go on sale prematurely are fearsome. So while the industry frowns on such practices, it is effectively powerless to plug every single potential leak.In the past, legitimate retail sources have started selling games early before pleading that they made a mistake – such as Argos, which got in trouble for selling 2009's Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 before it was supposed to.Mail-order outlets often dispatch pre-ordered games when they receive them, often before the games are officially on sale, so they are often favoured by gamers seeking to get their latest fix before anyone else.C&amp;VG reports that US retailer K-Mart broke ranks to sell copies of Modern Warfare 3 earlier than it should have. One way in which such practices are discouraged is for companies running online gaming services – especially Microsoft with Xbox Live – to collaborate with games developers and publishers and to ban those found playing games online before their official launch date.But distributor Activision said in a statement that "we don't plan to ban players with early legitimate copies of Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3".With millions of copies of the game pre-ordered, the amount of units that have leaked onto sale early is comparatively insignificant. In practice, publishers turn a blind eye to the practice – as long as it concerns only legitimate, as opposed to pirated, copies of the game.And it could also have pointed out that we're in the middle of a credit crunch, so waiting for the official launch before buying a game can only save you money.• This article was amended on 8 November 2011 because the original said  Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 was released in 2007. This has been corrected.
You're scheduled to give a keynote speech at the upcoming London Games Conference this year.(Laughs) Indeed.Can you give us a taster of what you'll be talking about?We haven't nailed down all the details as yet. But, what I usually talk about at conferences like this is the history of the games industry from the past to the present and hopefully where we're going in the future. It's one of the most exciting industries because it's driven by innovation in technology, which constantly opens up new challenges and opportunities and creative potential.New ways of creating games, new ways of distributing games and new ways of playing games happen all the time, therefore there are always new platforms and games permeate culture more often. Quite recently the iPhone and Android devices, obviously, came into their own as platforms, as did Facebook, and there are huge numbers attached to them. This is how you get the millions of downloads for a game like Angry Birds and how you get millions of people playing Farmville on Facebook.While the traditional retail box product games industry has matured, there are all sorts of opportunities now where content creators can reach large audiences via high-speed broadband. Small teams can get to market with minimal output products and see how consumers react immediately. Games are moving from a product to a service.Looking at the huge amounts of money invested in and generated by top tier releases, and the gulf between that and the outlay for independents, do you think that either massive publishers, or indie developers will create most future releases?No, I don't agree with that. I think that triple-A product isn't going to go away, it's just a mature market now. Therefore it's achieved a kind of 10/90 rule where 10% of the titles derive 90% of the revenue. The big franchises are going to get bigger and everyone's going to play the same games. The games that aren't triple-A are going to disappear because people are going to buy the same games, and the rest of the time, rather than buying B-type games, they'll invest in apps or games for their social and mobile devices.There are lots of things, however, that are created between the extremes of your 200-person garage-band developer and the sort of teams that create a Call Of Duty or a Tomb Raider. There are a mobile games, free-to-play games, browser games, MMOs and games that are distributed via networks like the XBLA or the PSN. These aren't what you'd call triple-A games but the teams that create them aren't exactly small. MMOs, for example, don't have to be the size of something like World Of Warcraft and can be made by a smaller team. There's a whole range of teams making games at the moment – there's no either/or situation.In a recent report – which you featured in – on Newsnight, it was claimed that the UK games industry was suffering a "crisis of confidence". Do you agree with that?I wouldn't say it's a crisis of confidence. There are a number of issues facing the games industry worldwide, but particularly for the UK, there's a crisis in that games have never had any support. The film industry gets production tax credits and they have support from the UK Film Council, while the games industry has been successful without any help.The issues that face the gaming industry, and indeed all creative digital industries, are five fold. I call them the five Ps.The first is perception; there's always been a negative perception surrounding video games. People and media concentrate on violence in games when only 3% of games by volume have an 18 rating. There's far more diverse content these days. Over 70% of the population plays games and yet the media nearly always focuses on the negative aspects of the medium.The second P is pipe! We need better high-speed broadband to consume content and for content creators to be able to reach their audiences.The next P is pound, and by that I mean access to finances. So many digital creative businesses aren't able to get access to finance because the products they're making are "fluffy" and risky. So everyone thinks our creatives are really cool, (laughs) but doesn't anyone want to invest in them? Not as much as they would in traditional industry which is crazy really. Manufacturing is fat and the financial industry is in complete disarray, so what better place for investment than in our creative industries? We are a creative nation. Our fashion, our TV, our music, our film and our games are revered around the world.The fourth P is people. When you look at schools, ITT became the de facto skill-tree, which while useful, is effectively office skill. We need people who can create. ICT is to computing as reading is to writing. So our recommendation is for computer science to be considered an essential discipline in the national curriculum. It's just common sense. You can't build up the economy with a nation of digital illiterates.The fifth P is property. In the UK we're very good at creating intellectual property but we're very poor at hanging on to it. Other people seem to see more lasting value in the IP we create than we do ourselves and therefore, I would like to see how we could retain ownership of it. That might result in a lot more revenue coming to the UK, rather than us exporting it all abroad. We're in danger of becoming a work-for-hire nation.A lot of these points were covered in your report earlier this year. How much movement has there been since the report came out?We've had a lot of support from DCMS (Department for Culture, Media and Sport) because, as you know, they asked us to do the report in the first place. There's been some communication with BIS (Department for Business Innovation and Skills). There's been zero communication with DfE (Department for Education).So what we've done since then is, through UKIE, form a gaming next-gen skills group, which I chair. We're forming a broad coalition of partners who are keen to get computer science on the national curriculum. Companies who have signed up so far are Google, Intellect, several universities and many other partners. They all have the same wish – they want a skilled workforce of people capable of creating digital content. This absolutely means a knowledge of computer science and a fundamental understanding of art, because you need that in order to build what people who visualise content want you to do.So do you think video games as a medium are a hard-sell with the people in charge of education in this country?Well, I think it's changing because now the greater percentage of people play games and understand it better as a medium. The only people who don't are the people in the establishment, the older people who haven't touched games. They might be struggling.But let's not forget that, while we are using video games to push our point because it is quite a rock star medium and it is interesting to youngsters in general, our considerations are relevant to all the digital creative mediums and industries. There's scope there for engineers, for the banking system, for the financial industry; computer science can be used for all these things.It's not just about the gaming industry. In a way we're using games as a poster boy because it's a high-profile rock'n'roll industry. It generates $50bn a year in sales alone. It's going to generate $90bn by 2015. My question [to the government and other industries] is: "do you want a piece of that, or not?"The UK gaming industry has slipped to fifth in the world over the past few years. Do you think there's a tipping point where we'll have lost so much ground we won't be able to climb back up the ladder?I hope not. All I do know is that ITT as it's taught is outdated and boring. Talk to any child. They come out of the womb these days understanding ITT. It takes about a week to get them up to speed on Power Point and Exel. What we have to do is excite them. We have to put creative technology into their hands so they can build their own content, create things people can use. Once they do that, they can attach a copyright to it, build intellectual property and monetise that around the world. Surely these are the sort of people we need.
Whoops, I knew I'd forget something. Apologies, Chatterboxers, but there is a rather large game I've been reviewing...
A collection of 12 apps for you today:Fantasy SafariEven the biggest games publishers aren't immune to the freemium bug on Apple's App Store. Electronic Arts' new game Fantasy Safari is free to play and funded by in-app purchases of virtual items. The gameplay involves building and running a safari park where the creatures are mythical: unicorns, dragons, phoenixes and the like.iPhoneD&amp;AD 2011Creative industry awards D&amp;AD has its own iPad app, offering details, images and videos of more than 650 entries, as well as extra content on news, events and educational schemes.iPadAtari's Greatest HitsAlready available for iPhone, Atari's greatest hits collection has made the leap to Android, with Missile Command preloaded free, and 99 other classics available to buy in-app as four-game packs, or all at once. Asteroids, Centipede, Crystal Castles, Pong and more...Android7digital MusicDigital music firm 7digital has updated its Android app to a universal build that includes a version specifically for tablets running the Android 3.0 Honeycomb software. It's a digital music store with recommendations, browsing and preview features, and access to 7digital's cloud features to download previously purchased songs.AndroidMusic by Sort It!There are plenty of digital music apps for iPhone, but this app focuses on physical music: CDs, vinyl and even tapes. It's for building a catalogue of your music collection, using a mixture of barcode scanning, database search and manual barcode entry. The catalogue is then stored online and accessible from various devices. There is even a feature to keep tabs on who you've lent albums to.iPhoneArtfinder for iPhoneArtfinder is pretty much a Shazam for art: it enables people to take photos of artworks that they encounter in galleries and get more information on them using image recognition technology.iPhoneVlingo – Virtual AssistantVoice control app Vlingo isn't new for BlackBerry smartphones, but it's newly free. The app is the latest to benefit from Research In Motion's apologetic "Compliments of BlackBerry" scheme to compensate its customers for the recent service outage. It's a good chance to see how Vlingo measures up to iPhone 4S' highly-touted Siri feature.BlackBerryAnnika Academy for iPadPro golfer Annika Sorenstam has her own golfing school, and now it has a spin-off app for iPad. It offers video tips from Annika and her colleagues covering everything from driving, chipping and putting basics through to bunker strategies and other advanced tactics.iPadPing Pong Dim SumCan't get enough of the Ping Pong Dim Sum restaurants? They now have an app for iPhone. Book a table, check promotions, and even calculate tips. It's the work of restaurantdiary.iPhoneMonkey Island Tales 1The first iOS installment in the Monkey Island Tales series is already available in HD as an iPad app (along with parts two, three, four and five), but it has just been shrunk down for iPhone as a separate game. Expect trademark Monkey Island humour and puzzles.iPhoneScribble SynthScribble Synth is an iOS music app that looks a bit like a virtual Etch-a-Sketch, except the doodles are converted into synthesizer sounds. It's aimed at children.iPhone / iPadZX PlectrumAnd finally... Playing ZX Spectrum loading sounds as a musical instrument? There really is an app for that.iPhone
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 5 NovemberPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (37)22 (–)Uncharted 3: Drake's Deception(15+)PS3 (100)13 (3)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (43)PS3 (39)Wii (6)PSP (4)64 (2)Batman: Arkham City(15+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (44)35 (5)Just Dance 3(3+)Wii (93)Xbox 360 (7)46 (4)Football Manager 2012(3+)PC (88)PSP (12)37 (6)Forza Motorsport 4(3+)Xbox 360 (100)48 (8)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (89)Xbox 360 (9)PS3 (2)329 (9)Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure(7+)Xbox 360 (39)Wii (37)PS3 (20)3DS (3)410 (–)Sonic Generations(7+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (43)111 (15)F1 2011(3+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (49)PC (1)712 (18)Kinect Sports: Season Two(3+)Xbox 360 (100)213 (11)Pro Evolution Soccer 2012(3+)PS3 (47)Xbox 360 (29)Wii (13)PSP (7)414 (12)Lego Pirates Of The Caribbean(7+)Wii (27)DS (26)Xbox 360 (20)PS3 (12)2615 (–)Michael Jackson: The Experience(12+)Wii (84)Xbox 360 (11)PS3 (5)DS (0)1116 (–)Goldeneye: Reloaded(16+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (47)117 (7)The Sims 3: Pets(12+)PC (66)Xbox 360 (22)PS3 (10)3DS (3)318 (17)Deus Ex: Human Revolution(15+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (42)PC (8)1119 (14)Gears Of War 3(18+)Xbox 360 (100)720 (10)Rage(18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (34)5UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
The motor company Ford has discovered belatedly that touchscreens don't make a great replacement for the knobs and buttons of a dashboard – especially if the touchscreens are plagued with software glitches.The company says it will send memory sticks to 250,000 customers in the US offering a software upgrades for its glitch-prone MyFord Touch system, which replaces the standard dashboard knobs and buttons with a touchscreen.The Flash drives with the upgrade will be sent out early next year to people using MyFord Touch and MyLincoln Touch, which is the equivalent system in its luxury Lincoln brand. Owners will be able to do the upgrade themselves in about 45 minutes, or dealers will do it for free.Ford is still deciding though how it will offer the upgrade to 200,000 buyers outside the US. Ford says it knows of no other car company that has given owners the option of upgrading their own software on this scale – though that underlines the urgency of the problem for the company.Problems with MyFord Touch have sent Ford's user rating plummeting among customers: last month it fell from 10th place to 20th place in Consumer Reports' annual reliability rankings largely because of MyFord Touch. Ford also plummeted in a J.D. Power quality survey earlier this year.MyFord Touch debuted in 2010 on the Ford Edge and replaces traditional dashboard knobs and buttons with a touchscreen. Drivers control climate, navigation, entertainment, phone calls and other functions, using touch or voice commands. It's a $750 (£468) option on lower-trim levels, but comes standard on higher-end ones. Ford quickly rolled out the system on the Ford Explorer, Ford Focus and other models.But dealer phone lines and internet chatrooms were soon buzzing with complaints. The system would shut down without warning and took too long to reboot. It didn't understand voice commands and didn't always respond to owners' touch commands. Some owners found the information-packed screens overwhelming.Ford had dealers perform four software updates and paid them to hold owner clinics. But it soon realised it had to do more. The latest upgrade makes significant changes: screens are now simpler and cleaner, with larger text and shading to outline buttons. Voice recognition is improved.Ford says the new system responds to touch commands more quickly and is less likely to shut down. A shutdown of the system does not affect the ability to steer or brake the car.New models due out next year, including the redesigned Ford Escape and Ford Taurus, will automatically get the upgraded system.Ford won't say how much it's spending on the upgrade. The company is also is unapologetic – so far – about the system, which was first shown off at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas in 2010, saying MyFord Touch is an advanced technology that's drawing new customers to the brand.Sales of the new Ford Explorer have more than doubled so far this year, for example. But the company also learned quickly that buyers aren't as forgiving with glitches in their cars as they are with their phones or computers."People's expectation of what's in the car is totally different than what they brought home from Best Buy," Gary Jablonski, Ford's manager of Sync platform development, told the wire service Associated Press in a recent interview. Sync, a four-year-old voice command system that Ford designed with Microsoft, serves as the platform for the more advanced MyFord Touch.Forrest Brown, a Ford dealer in Dyersville, Iowa, got a barrage of complaints last winter when customers were unable to defrost their windshields or turn up the heat because their screens were going blank. But the problems have become less frequent as Ford updates the software. Brown has also started inviting customers back to the dealership so he can answer questions about the system."We've come to the realisation that this type of technology is going to be in almost all vehicles in the future, so you might as well get used to it and understand it and make your customers aware of it," Brown said.Jablonski insists MyFord Touch was thoroughly tested and not brought to the market too soon, as some critics contend. The problem, he said, is that not everything is testable.The system syncs up to more than 70 different kinds of mobile phones, for example, which are constantly getting updates of their own. Customers may blame the car for something that is really the fault of the phone.But Ford realises it may have gone further than its customers wanted to go. The company is planning to bring back volume and tuning knobs, for example, because it found people didn't like using a touchscreen for those functions.Jeremy Anwyl, chief executive of auto information site Edmunds.com, once watched a MyFord Touch screen freeze up during a Ford demonstration. Still, he gives Ford credit for taking a chance on new technology, even at the expense of its quality scores.Vehicle quality is getting so good that customers are increasingly basing their buying decisions on high-tech options, he said. "I'd rather have MyFord Touch and Sync and take the heat from [customers] than not have it at all," he said.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamEric Schmidt: Google does not dominate search, mobile &gt;&gt; PCMag.com"Google's executive chairman, Eric Schmidt, appeared on Capitol Hill in September to answer questions about whether his company's products are anti-competitive. He denied that Google gives its own products search preference over that of its competitors and took issue with Yelp's assessment of a recent search battle, among other things." In other news: water not wet, fire not hot.Fibre to the home: how fast?Links to a fun tool which lets you see how fast fibre to the home could be. Britain needs to get this sorted.FairSearch statement on Google chairman Eric Schmidt's non-responsive answers to Senate Antitrust subcommittee &gt;&gt; Fairsearch.org...and the response from Fairsearch, whose members include the British company Foundem (one of the original complainants to the European Commission about Google): "Schmidt's non-responsive reply to the Subcommittee is evidence that those investigating Google must 'search on' for real answers to the serious questions about how Google uses its monopoly power in the market. Schmidt may be chairman of one of the most powerful companies in the world, but he cannot simply make facts and evidence of Google's pattern of anti-competitive business practices disappear by denying their existence."The end of the independent phone brand &gt;&gt; asymco"On average, it's as if one phone vendor has disappeared every year for fifteen years. "And it's still not over. RIM is also becoming a going concern issue, and LG has a big question mark above it. "Of course, ZTE and Huawei and Lenovo are joining the list of competitors but I note that they are not focused on mobile phones. They are opportunistic phone vendors, depending on other businesses to compensate for the risks inherent in phone sales. It's interesting to note that neither Apple nor Samsung are pure phone plays."Cable maps of Africa &gt;&gt; WikipediaJimmy Wales's comment in linking to this: "Remember the moment when you saw this map and understood what is about to happen in Africa.."delicious beta status blog &gt;&gt; DeliciousHere's the strange thing: look at the text at the top of the blog, where it says "delicious beta status blog", which explains what it does. Now try to select the text.Real security in Mac OS X requires Apple-signed certificates &gt;&gt; Wil Shipley"The problem Mac developers are facing is that the two that Apple is enforcing on the Mac App Store (Sandboxing and Code Auditing) are implemented currently to be actively bad for developers and not particularly good for users. And the method that would provide the most benefit for developers and users (Certification) isn't enforced broadly enough to be useful."The Smartphone OS Complete Comparison [Chart] &gt;&gt; My Phone Deals"So, you want a new smartphone. "There's a bevy of dazzling handsets enticing you with their sleek forms and bright screens. It can be tempting to plonk your cash down for the first phone that catches your eye, or one that the salesman pushes. "Wait! The first and most important decision you have to make is to choose an Operating System." Well, possibly not. But this comparison of the platforms (warning: don't try to view it on a mobile) is quite good.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Ladies and gentlemen, we offer you thefrontrunner for tweet of the year, courtesy of National Rail Enquiries which came amid thefaintly worrying news of Sunday night:National Rail Enquiries tweet: this was utterly seriousIt's a work of art – redolent as it is of previous great British creations such as The Fall and Rise of Reginald Perrin (whosegiven reasons for being latedid once include "escaped puma at Chessington North" – which made him 22 minutes late rather than the previous 11) and of The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy with itsfamous rant by Arthur Dent:Arthur Dent: "You hadn't exactly gone out of your way to call attention to them had you? I mean like actually telling anyone or anything."Council jobsworth: "But the plans were on display …"AD: "On display? I eventually had to go down to the cellar to find them."CJ: "That's the display department.""With a torch.""Ah, well the lights had probably gone.""So had the stairs.""But look you found the notice didn't you?""Yes. Yes I did. It was on display in the bottom of a locked filing cabinet stuck in a disused lavatory with a sign on the door saying 'Beware of The Leopard'."(We should admire the cosmic ordering that links the initials in that quote back to Reginald Perrin, of course.)Our thanks toZack Whittakerfor pointing it out.If you know of a better one – do tell us in the comments. A link would be useful, of course.
The birth of Nobel prizewinning scientist Marie Curie has been marked by Google with a picture of her at her work bench on the search engine's home page. The Polish-born physicist and chemist is renowned for her pioneering work on radioactivity and for her important contribution to the fight against cancer.Curie was born in Warsaw on 7 November 1867, but moved to Paris in 1891 to pursue her studies in mathematics and physics at the Sorbonne. Working alongside her husband Pierre, she is credited with discovering polonium and radium, the former named after the country of her birth. The couple were awarded the Nobel prize for physics in 1903, jointly with Henri Becquerel, the discoverer of radioactivity.Curie also promoted the use of radium for therapeutic purposes. During the first world war she helped develop small, mobile x-ray units that could be used to diagnose injuries close to the battlefront. As director of the Red Cross radiological service, she toured Paris gathering money, supplies and vehicles. In October 1914 she set off for the front. She worked there with her daughter Irene, then aged 17, at casualty clearing stations, x-raying wounded soldiers to locate fractures, bullets and shrapnel. She also held training courses in the new techniques for medical orderlies and doctors.Curie went on to receive a second Nobel prize, this time for chemistry, in 1911.Curie was a victim of the element she used to help others, dying on 4 July 1934 of pernicious anaemia, developed through years of exposure to radiation. She was the first woman to be interred in the Pantheon in Paris for her own achievements, and was arguably the first woman to make such a significant contribution to science.
Identified by Electronic Arts as the publisher's best bet to take on sales leviathanCall of Duty,Battlefield 3has been given a rigorous, humourless reshaping to make it fit for purpose. Playing it feels a little like meeting an old friend trying hard to fit in with some new social set – the familiar grin and twinkle lost in a bland new personality.Not that there's much technically wrong with it. Visually the game is a marvel of beautiful lighting effects and spectacular locations. It's a significant step up from the ageingCall of Dutyengine, but this advantage is all but lost through the game's reluctance to step out of its rival's shadow.We've seen everything on offer here before – terrorists plots, interrogations and jargon-heavy special forces. Clearly the intention was to create something epic andCoD-topping, but the plan for achieving it seems to be "do the same but louder and prettier", rather than building on Battlefield's previously funny, larger-than-life approach.Occasionally the game succeeds in doing the familiar so well it becomes exciting again – preparing to launch from the deck of an aircraft carrier, for instance, and the atmospheric dogfight through the clouds that follows – but for the most part it feels tedious despite being so accomplished.There's better news when it comes to the multiplayer, where the game's outstanding technical achievements are married to a refined class-based system that encourages teamwork. It'sBattlefield's traditional strength, and years of expertise provide the confidence to differ fromCall of Dutyand be all the better for it. Here's hoping this confidence carries over into the single-player campaign forBattlefield&nbsp;4.
A game as good asUncharted 3: Drake's Deceptionis a rare thing indeed. Centred around the escapades of a roguish explorer with a penchant for ancient tombs and dangerous odds, it's every bit the video-game equivalent of a great summer blockbuster movie.There's an inescapable air of Indiana Jones here as you embark on a race against an unhinged criminal mastermind to uncover a mythical treasure of incredible value and power, yet this beautiful, ambitious and dramatic game still has more than&nbsp;enough personality to stand out on its own. Thanks to an exceptional effort by the actors and scriptwriting team,Uncharted 3achieves something all too often absent in gaming, offering a central cast that is both convincing and likable. Nathan Drake, the witty Everyman action hero at the game's heart, has every right to his increasing status as a video-gaming star, radiating a breed of cool in which it's a pleasure to bask. In factUncharted&nbsp;3's performance, plot and visual flair almost outshine the gameplay – although it, too, is exemplary.Based around shooting, fist fights and puzzle-solving, it's intensely satisfying and, more significantly, seamlessly blended into the cinematic aesthetic. Whether scrambling across collapsing temples or pummelling your knuckles into enemy flesh, the action is always so stylish, well shot and spectacular that it's sometimes hard to believe that you're actually in control.WhatUncharted 3does best is make it feel like the player is not only the hero but also director and cinematographer. Finally, the audio is also sublime, the orchestral score generously, and with impressive consistency, building the atmosphere throughout.The team atUncharted&nbsp;3's studio, Naughty Dog, are master entertainers, and if there is fault here it can only be that their creation does rely on familiar conventions. ButUncharted 3still stands out as one of the finest adventure games of a generation.  Without exaggeration, this sets a new benchmark for the blockbuster genre.
Price £29,195MPG 39.9Top speed 143mphMidnight on the M4. The kids are sleeping in the back; Willie Nelson is on the stereo and home is 100 miles away. Suddenly the dark cabin fills with the nostril-clinging stench of fresh manure. It's so immediate I&nbsp;wonder if we've strayed into the shower of a muck spreader. I hold my breath and accelerate, desperate to escape the effluvium. But the cloying smell just gets stronger. It's so intense it wakes the children up. They start to wail (they're teenagers), eyes bulging in horror. We open the windows and drive even faster. It's torture by smell. Looking over my shoulder I see the dog sitting up in the back. Unblinking hound eyes set on either side of a&nbsp;twitching muzzle. "Oh god," my wife groans, a hand clamped across her mouth. "It's the dog…"The awful truth dawns on the rest of us. The dog, having spent the afternoon wolfing fresh country pancakes, has vomited the half-digested manure, rather neatly, into the central console. We screech to a&nbsp;halt at the next service station and everyone leaps out as if the car is on fire. The awful mixture slops on to the handbrake. The cubby brims over with the heady brew, the arm of a&nbsp;pair of sunglasses sticks out of it like a stick in a Bonsai swamp. Somehow we, I mean I, clean up the gloop in the yellow glare of the forecourt, while the dog, tail wagging, sniffs round the bins for any more morsels…It was bad, but it wasn't the worst thing that can happen to you as  a dog-owning driver, according to David Williams of GEM Motoring.  He says: "If you're travelling at 30mph, in the case of impact an unrestrained average-sized dog would be projected forward with a force equal to a&nbsp;baby elephant." So dog harnesses from now on (as likely as doggy sick bags, I expect).The poor car that was on the receiving end was the blameless Volvo V60, though ironically Volvo is a brand that's featured Labradors in its nauseatingly smug ads for decades. But Volvo's now gone all sexy on us with its "naughty sporty" S60. For the canine community, though, Volvo will always be their go-to car for more practical reasons. There's the large low-loading platform that makes access so easy. For those with old/injured/fat mutts to hoist, the high tailgate gives plenty of headroom. Inside, the durable lining is tough and chew resistant, and the wipe-down leather is more than up to coping with mud, hair and slobber.This V60 is the first redesign to emerge from the now Chinese-owned Volvo brand. Ford, which bought it in 1999 for $6bn, sold it to Zhejiang Geely last year. It's great news for the home counties favourite, as the Chinese market is expanding with geyser-like speed. For its far-eastern incarnation Volvo has assumed a&nbsp;bold new look. Gone are the straight lines and severe angles and in come curves, low-set air intakes, racy exhausts and cheap-looking grilles. Volvo would have us believe its cars are strikingly athletic to drive, too, but in truth they still do what they've been doing brilliantly for decades. Getting you where you want to go comfortably, reliably and safely. If you opt for the eco-centric DRIVe version you'll also be getting 66 miles to the gallon – which means 930 miles between garage stops (depending on how the stick-chaser in the back is feeling, of course).
Whenever William Hague, our esteemed foreign secretary, speaks on the subject of cyberspace, what comes to mind is Dr Johnson's celebrated comment about seeing a dog walking on its hind legs: one is surprised, not that the thing is done well, but that it is done at all. And there he waslast Monday evening, hosting a reception in the Science Museum to launch the government's lavish talkfest, theLondon Conference on Cyberspace. The subject was, he told his agreeably lubricated audience, "a phenomenon that has dramatically shaped the way we live, work and interact". The conference was "the first international conference of its kind", and would facilitate all kinds of dialogue on the "threats and opportunities" of cyberspace.The conference was a testimony to how far the Foreign Office has travelled in the last decade and a half. From being an outfit that was wary of the net, it has become an admired example of how a government department can engage productively with the networked world. Earlier this year, I met a senior foreign diplomat who, concerned that his country's foreign service was way behind the curve, had come to Britain to observe how the FCO was harnessing the internet. He went away very impressed, nay stunned, by the way in which the department engages with online services (it even allows its diplomats to blog as individuals). When researching this column, I came across a couple of YouTube videos about the conference made, not by an official in Whitehall, but by Judith Macgregor, Britain's ambassador to Mexico – in bothEnglishandflawless Spanish.William Hague talked of "threats and opportunities" but much of the talk at the conference inevitably focused on the former. And with good reason. Most governments have now woken up to the fact that cybercrime is a booming business. Reliable statistics are hard to come by: online crime is massively under-reported by banks and many of the organisations publishing scary numbers have a vested interest in raising hairs. But nobody doubts that cyberspace has become a really lucrative opportunity for crooks. The most recent"state of cybercrime" reportfrom Symantec, a security firm, asserts that cybercrime now costs the world $388bn annually, of which $114bn is the direct cash cost of online fraud, and the remainder the indirect costs of dealing with its consequences. This is bigger than the black market in marijuana, cocaine and heroin combined.Most people have at least a hazy idea of how the drugs trade operates, but ignorance about cybercrime is nearly total. The potential rewards of online skulduggery are as great as those from drugs, but the risks of detection and punishment are negligible by comparison. So if you were a rational criminal today you'd be much better off launching phishing expeditions to obtain people's bank details. That way you don't have to worry about being shot by your criminal competitors; and the risks of having your collar felt by PC Plod are infinitesimal.To date, the best insight we've got into the arcane world of cybercrime is a recent book by Misha Glenny entitledDark Market: Cyberthieves, Cybercops and You(Bodley Head). Mr Glenny is not a geek but an experienced investigative journalist and he had the interesting idea of focusing not on technology but on a number of individuals who were once bigshots in the cyber-underground but who were – for the most part – eventually apprehended by law enforcement.Two things stand out from his account. The first is the uncanny way in which the cybercriminal community mirrors the real world of online commerce. Thousands of people regularly "skim" credit-card details, for example, but then have to find people who will feed cloned cards into ATM machines so that the resulting cash can be, as it were, harvested. How does one recruit such people? How does one sell stolen card details? And how can criminals (who by definition are untrustworthy individuals) establish online trading systems on which they can rely? The answer is by setting up trading and recruitment exchanges such as CardersMarket and Darkmarket and using escrow systems just like lawyers do in the real (legitimate) world.The other striking thought triggered by Mr Glenny's book is that our current approaches to cybercrime are too focused on security technology (on which the governments represented at the London conference are spending billions) and too little focused on psychology. Cybercriminals have pretty distinctive personality profiles; they tend to be clever, young and overwhelmingly male. Often they wander into crime more or less by accident. They might therefore be easy to spot and perhaps divert before they ever skim a credit card. And if we could catch them young, then cyberspace might become a safer place.
'Where did the computer go?" was the slogan Apple used in 2004 when it launched the first of its current range of iMac desktop computers. The question was designed to draw attention to the ingenuity with which the company's designers had managed to pack the components of an entire desktop computer into what was effectively an enclosure for a large flat screen. But actually it's a question with a more contemporary relevance, because nowadays most of us rely on "computing" that's provided by machines we never see and could not locate even if we tried. They are somewhere out there in the internet "cloud" (so called because the network is often drawn as a cloud in technical diagrams), which is how so many of us came to be users of something called "cloud&nbsp;computing".It's very different from how things used to be. Once upon a time the computer was the PC (or the laptop) on your desk. If you wanted to do word processing, or calculations on a spreadsheet, or to read and write emails, you did so by launching a program that ran on your computer. And the data – the documents, calculations or messages – that you produced were likewise stored on the hard drive inside your machine. Even if the PC was connected to the net, most of your computing activity happened inside the box on your desk.And now? First, most of what we think of as "computing" is increasingly done using a smartphone or an iPad or a simple, stripped-down, laptop or "netbook". Much of our data – documents, emails, photographs, spreadsheets – is no longer stored on our devices but is held in distant server farms operated by the likes of Google, Yahoo, Facebook, Amazon and Microsoft. And if you're a serious user of computing resources you will not only store your stuff in the cloud, but rent virtual computers from companies such as Amazon on&nbsp;which&nbsp;to run your own programs.What made this possible was the penetration of broadband – ie internet connections that were fast enough to ensure that interactions with distant machines happened at a tolerable speed. Once these types of connections became widespread, the die was cast.For individuals, reliance on cloud computing came about mainly because companies such as Microsoft, Google and Yahoo offered useful services – think search (Google, Bing), webmail (Hotmail, Gmail), image hosting (Flickr, Picasa) and social networking (Facebook) – that were apparently free (ie supported by advertising) and required no special software (other than a browser) running on their&nbsp;computers.For companies, the route into dependence on cloud computing was driven by economics. Building and running IT services for thousands of employees is an expensive and unrewarding business. But for several decades companies had little alternative – just as a century ago they had no alternative except to build and operate their own electricity generators. But eventually it became possible to purchase electricity off the grid, and so most companies shut down&nbsp;their generators and left the messy business of producing electricity&nbsp;to utility companies. Now they're doing the same with computing services, which they regard as a utility – just like electricity or water. In other words, the net has become another kind of grid.JNApple / iCloudKey featuresiCloud launched in early October, promising a simple and elegant way to store music, photos, documents and other files on Apple's servers and then access them from iPhone, iPod touch, iPad and computers. The key point is that a lot of this is done automatically in the background without you having to do anything. For example, a feature called Photo Stream makes all the photos you take appear on your other devices for up to 30 days.iCloud also lets you download all your previous purchases on Apple's iTunes Store to your Apple-registered devices. Meanwhile, developers making apps for Apple devices can also use iCloud's storage. Early examples include game saves being accessible across iPhone and iPad, and document editing apps working across all these devices.DevicesiCloud works on any iPhone, iPad or iPod touch running the iOS 5 software, as well as any Mac running the OS X Lion operating system. But it also works on PCs, through iTunes.The cost  iCloud is free with 5GB of storage space for your content, although anything you buy from iTunes doesn't count towards this total, nor do your Photo Stream pictures. 10GB of additional storage costs £14 a year, while 20GB costs £28 and 50GB costs £70.Ease of useThe key to iCloud is that, often, you don't have to "use" it: the service does things in the background without you needing  to upload or download anything. The idea being that quickly, you'll just assume your files and content are available on whatever device you're using at the time.Privacy and securityiCloud involves a lot of your personal content being sent over the internet and/or stored on Apple's servers, although the company uses encryption technology to keep it secure. Apple also has a policy of only storing location data from individual devices for 24 hours on its servers before deleting it.Great for…Anyone with an Apple device, but particularly for those with two or three.SDMicrosoft / SkyDriveKey featuresMicrosoft's SkyDrive is part of its Windows Live service, with strong links to services such as Hotmail, Windows Messenger and Xbox Live. It's more of a virtual hard drive in the cloud, using a similar system of folders to organise your stored files.You can store documents, photos and videos in your SkyDrive, as well as other files. Documents can be edited within Microsoft's Office web apps – just like Google. Meanwhile, Hotmail is the basis for synchronising your contacts, email and calendars across all these devices.SkyDrive also has the ability to make certain folders public – to share their contents with friends and family, for example. This feature is useful for workmates collaborating on big documents or projects. Like Apple, Microsoft wants developers to incorporate SkyDrive into their apps, both on PCs and Windows Phones.DevicesSkyDrive is accessible from PCs and Macs, but also from smartphones running the Windows Phone operating system. It has a good mobile website, too, which works on other mobile devices.The costSkyDrive is free, and you get 25GB of storage for your documents and files. At the time of writing, there is no way to buy additional storage.Ease of useOne easy way to use SkyDrive is from within Microsoft applications, such as the latest version of Office, which lets you save documents directly to your SkyDrive. It's also integrated into Windows Phones, allowing you to save photos to your SkyDrive immediately after taking them. Using the main website to upload and access files is simple, too.Privacy and securityMicrosoft gives every file you store on SkyDrive its own web address, making it easy to share them with friends –  and the URLs are long and complex enough not to be guessed. You can also set files and folders to share with specific contacts or to be entirely private.Great for...Anyone with a Windows Phone and the hardy people who are still using Hotmail in 2011.SDGoogleKey featuresGoogle has a number of cloud services that increasingly interlink. Gmail, for example, now offers an impressive 7.6GB of free storage for emails and attachments, while also storing your contacts.Another Google cloud service is Google Calendar, which stores your engagements in the cloud so you're never far from a device telling you when your dentist appointment is.Google Docs is for creating, editing and sharing documents, spreadsheets and presentations – an online equivalent of Microsoft's Office (although in response to Google Docs, Microsoft now has one of those too).Google eBookstore is a cloud service for buying ebooks and accessing them from any web-enabled device, while the company has a music service live in the US, and coming our way soon.DevicesGoogle makes its cloud services available across every device possible: computers, tablets and smartphones. On the latter two, this is a mixture of apps and (often superior) mobile websites. They work particularly well on devices running Google's Android software.The cost  All Google's cloud services are free. That said, if you find yourself bumping up against the upper storage limit on Gmail, 20GB costs $5 a year, 80GB costs $20, 200GB costs $50, 400GB costs $100 a year and 1TB will set you back $256.Ease of useGoogle's experience shines through: its services are easy to use, with Google Docs presenting no problems for anyone switching from desktop tools such as Office. Over time, the different services have also linked together in some good ways, such as prompting you to make a calendar appointment from within Gmail.Privacy policyGoogle's policy of selling ads relating to keywords in your emails can spook new Gmail users, but the company says its systems are entirely automated – and are also used to screen out viruses and spam from your inbox. Security-wise, Gmail can offer a two-step verification process to enter an additional code when logging in.Great for...Cost-sensitive web users who buy into the Googleplex dream.SDDropboxKey featuresDropbox is the independent option in the four main cloud services we have chosen: it's a startup that doesn't make its own devices or operating systems. Its pitchis simple sharing, with files saved to Dropbox made instantly available across all your other devices.Other key selling points are the fact that Dropbox works when you're offline because the files are actually stored on your devices, but it also keeps data usage to a minimum – important for mobile users – by only transferring the parts of files that change when you edit them.Dropbox also includes sharing features to give friends, family and colleagues access to specific folders, so that it'll feel like that folder is stored on their computer too. You also have a Public folder where every file has a link for anyone to view.DevicesDropbox works on just about anything: its website is fine for PCs and Macs, while it has apps for iPhone, iPad, Android and BlackBerry. Phone users can edit files and then upload their photos and videos.The cost  Dropbox is free at its basic level, which provides 2GB of storage for your files. You pay $9.99 a month for the Pro 50 package (50GB) and $19.99 a month for Pro 100 (100GB).Ease of useDropbox has been designed to be easy to start using straight away, even if you're not a geek. The focus is on simplicity, from uploading files to sharing them with others. From the moment that your different devices are set up to synchronise your files, it's seamless.Privacy policyDropbox caused a stir earlier in 2011 with a change to its terms and conditions taken by many people as a claim to ownership over the files stored on it. The following week, however, it clarified to users that "You retain ownership of your stuff… We don't own your stuff."Great for…Independently minded souls with a range of devices from different manufacturers.SDCloud atlas: Specialist providersPhotos:Digital cameras and smartphones mean a lot of people have thousands of photos stored on their computers. Why store them in the cloud too? Partly to make them easier to share, but also for security: a back-up in case your hard drive comes a cropper.Flickr is the best-known cloud photos service, although in recent years it has faced serious competition from Facebook. You can upload to Flickr from your computer or mobile device, and it now makes it easier to post them on social networks too. Rivals include Photobucket and Picasa Web Albums, although now there are also mobile cloud photo apps such as Instagram and Picplz, which let you apply a range of visual effects before sharing.Music:Apple's iCloud will soon be the most high-profile cloud music service in the UK, but there are already rivals available.Sony's Music Unlimited is one of the best, because it combines the ability to store your existing music collection in the cloud with a Spotify-style library of songs you don't own, to stream. It works on computers, but also Android devices and the PlayStation 3 console.Carphone Warehouse also has a cloud music service, My Music Anywhere, which stores your collection online, including playlists, and allows you to access it from other computers and your smartphone.There is also US service MP3tunes, which is controversial within the music industry (record label EMI sued it), but it was one of the first to offer a music locker, with 2GB of free storage and more for customers who pay.Games:When it comes to games, the term "cloud" means something different. It's not about uploading your games to a remote server, but about never having to own the games in the first place: no downloads or discs required. Your chosen game runs on OnLive's server, delivering video to whatever screen you're playing on – PC, Mac, TV or tablet – then transmitting your controls back up to the server. One key advantage is that you don't need the most powerful hardware to run even the latest, most graphic-intensive games.To play on a TV, you'll need the OnLive Game System (a set-top box and joypad) which costs £69.99  plus subscription at £6.99 a month, although you buy access to brand new games separately.One rival is Gaikai, which aims to strike deals with websites to make games and demos playable within the web browser.Cloud hardware: The lowdownMost of the talk around the cloud concerns software and websites, but increasingly there is hardware too. Google's Chromebooks are laptops designed to be used with the company's cloud services. They even boot up straight into the web browser. Amazon's Kindle Fire tablet works with that company's cloud services. It goes on sale in the US this month, but no UK release date has been set.
As the music industry continues its commercial tailspin, and cinema's returns on 3D remain uninspiring, videogames just keep going from strength to strength. While the commercial figures are impressive enough – the UK market alone has been estimated to be worth £2.8bn – there's a more nebulous sense that the kind of futurist, forward momentum that different art forms have had is, for the time being at least, firmly with games, which currently enjoy the radical stylistic leaps, devoted fans and huge financial gains once cornered by authors, bands or films.Riding this wave is Uncharted 3: Drake's Deception, the latest chapter in Sony's 8m-selling action-adventure franchise. It blurs the boundary between film and gaming with a rolling, epic narrative (short version: fortune hunter Nathan Drake careers through various kingdoms, assailed by occult forces ), cinematic trailers and quotable dialogue. The release has been accompanied by the kind of stunts that are reminiscent of a big budget movie and scream, "This industry has money!" from an Ed Zwick short film, The Hero's Journey, to big-budget TV ads and desert treasure hunts for the keenest fans.At the centre of all this is Nolan North, the man who "plays" Nathan Drake. Having appeared in Batman: Arkham City as The Penguin, Assassin's Creed as Desmond Miles and Prince Of Persia (as The Prince), he's the nearest thing the games industry has to a bona fide leading man.So what exactly is it that you do?I'm an actor. Whether I'm on stage, in front of a camera or a microphone, what I do is the same – although with videogames it requires a lot of imagination. Motion capture is basically theatre in Spandex; there's minimal props, and you need a willingness to make an ass of yourself.How did you get into voiceovers?I've always had a penchant for dialects. I remember getting detention and being told, "Have a think about where doing these funny voices might get you someday."Are you allowed to improvise?Absolutely. The designers record the gameplay and I have to just talk over it, improvise. I call it panning for gold – most of it's dirt, but you'll get the odd nugget.Why do you think people are drawn to Drake?The fact that he's flawed and he's vulnerable is important. That describes 99% of the population.Ever get any grief from fanboys?I don't really get bothered, as such. I revel in my anonymity. But when I'm at a specific event and gamers are there, they'll recognise me. At a recent convention in London we had lines of over three hours.Was anyone dressed as you?Oh yeah. Some guy even brought his baby in and they'd given his middle name as Drake. The husband was upset as he'd wanted his first name to be NathanUncharted 3: Drake's Deception is out now.Watch The Hero's Journey athere
Ha! You thought this was the Guardian. Not this bit, it's not. It's Max Power magazine, or Top Gear. Go&nbsp;on, choke on your muesli, throw your&nbsp;Birkenstock at the page in a&nbsp;liberal rage, I don't care. [Engages first, stamps right foot to floor, disappears to the sound and smell of&nbsp;burning rubber.]They've been sending me these bloodyKiasandHyundais, sensible&nbsp;little Guardian-friendly cars&nbsp;that aren't too harsh on the pocket or the planet, have seats in the back for children and room behind them for the shopping. All very well [goes briefly on-message in attempt to save job] but hardly the reason I became a famous motoring journalist.This, on the other hand, is. Look&nbsp;at it! Not beautiful, no, but it&nbsp;has presence, people stare as I&nbsp;pass. Oh God, it sounds lovely, too. Brrrrrrrrrmmm.I know it's not acceptable to admit to enjoy driving nice cars. But I'm afraid I do. And this is a very nice one to drive. Most cars these days distance you from the road, they cocoon and anaesthetise you. The 370Z puts you firmly back in touch – very firmly, I can feel the texture of the road surface in my arse. No, it's not very comfortable, visibility is rubbish; but I don't want those things, I want to enjoy driving, and the road, while it's still legal to. I want a car that demands to be driven hard, and goes round corners without slowing down.The 370Z isn't just fun, it's also a&nbsp;steal. £35,000 will get you this race-themed special edition, with a stripe down the side and a&nbsp;tweaked chassis and suspension. But unless you're theStig(are you?), you probably won't notice much difference from the basic model, which costs around £28,000. And that really is a steal, because normally, to put this kind of smile on your face costs almost double that. And involves you buying anAudi (TT RS) or aPorsche (Cayman S). Which would certainly be more refined, but&nbsp;it would also make you a tosser.So who's this car for? I ask my colleague,kiwi Roger, who knows a lot about cars. It's a "hoon car" he says. A hoon is an antipodean term that suggests loutish, antisocial behaviour. Boy racer is probably the best translation. But that also means it's a car for someone who loves cars, and driving, rather than just someone with a lot of money.That makes sense, when I&nbsp;look at&nbsp;the people looking at me: they're&nbsp;car enthusiasts. They're hoons. I'm a&nbsp;hoon, and I'm proud&nbsp;of&nbsp;it. [Abandons all hope of&nbsp;saving Guardian job, lowers window, raises fist, uncoils middle&nbsp;finger, upwards.]Nissan 370Z GTPrice£35,000Top speed155mphAcceleration0-62mph in 5.3 secondsAverage consumption26.6mpgCO2 emissions248g/kmEco rating3/10In a wordHoonish
In computer games there are always cheering winners and blood-stained losers. This week Nintendo's president, Satoru Iwata, apologised for misjudgments that have led to the company behind the once wildly popular Wii to admit thatthe Japanese console multinational will make its first loss – ¥20bn (£160m) – in the 30 years it has reported publicly.The midnight queues on Monday, however, will tell a different story, as dogged gamers wait in line for the biggest game of the year: Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 – a first-person shooter with scenes set in a war-riven Paris and London. Its high-octane action has led some to predict that the title is poised to become the best-selling console game of recent times.The dichotomy reflects an industry in the midst of a complex transition. The high street is in crisis: market leader Game Group is losing money as the physical games business fell by 10% in the UK this year. Yet the $15bn-plus valuation put on the three-year-old Facebook game company Zynga, developers of Farmville, shows where future hopes lie.What is happening is simple to describe. Piers Harding-Rolls, a games industry analyst with research firm Screen Digest, says: "In common with a lot of other media industries, we are seeing a shift from physical-based media to new digital opportunities that have really opened up how games are distributed to the public." In other words, where once a game meant a £40 purchase of a CD for a £200 console, it can now amount to a 79p payment for Angry Birds.Nintendo's problems stem in part from its position in the technology lifecycle: the Wii, credited with bringing a whole new audience to gaming with its motion-sensing technology, is now five years old. With a next-generation Wii&nbsp;U out next year, Nintendo had bet on its glasses-free 3D handheld game, the 3DS, to bridge its financial gap, only to find that gamers did not much care for the distorting 3D or the price – which was initially £230 when launched in spring.Last week Iwata was asked to reflect on the "bitter lesson" of what happened with the poorly performing 3DS – and the company boss did his best to deflect the comment. "Please let me refrain from mentioning what Nintendo regrets with the specifics of the Nintendo 3DS because I do not think  	the news reports on those matters will help to invigorate the market in the upcoming sales season," he said in a Q&amp;A session translated and posted on the company's website.He conceded that part of the problem was that Nintendo took too long to take into account young female consumers (addressed eventually with the launch of a "misty pink" version of the handheld) and the lack of the availability of its workhorse, Super Mario 3D Land, at launch. Because, Iwata said, "we failed to offer such a software title at launch" the firm could not counteract naysayers who said glasses-free 3D was "tiring on your eyes".Handhelds remain dominant in Nintendo's Japan but the rise of the iPad and iPhone have transformed the European and US markets. With children happily seizing their parents' Apple products, consumers "have no compelling reason to buy a gaming device, in addition to the product they use every day," Harding-Rolls observes. Nintendo revenues are down from ¥1.8tn (£14.75bn) at the height of the Wii's popularity in 2009 to a forecast ¥790bn this year.AddictiveThis week Rovio, the Finnish firm behind the addictive Angry Birds game – mostly played on Apple devices – surpassed 500m downloads.Rovio's own data suggests that consumers are sufficiently diverted by the challenge of firing birds via a sling to spend 300m minutes a day on the game. No wonder that Rovio's chief marketing officer Peter Vesterbacka said last month that the "insanely profitable" firm might go public with a $1bn valuation next year.Nintendo used to pride itself on its ability to increase the number of people who play games. In the past titles such as Wii Fit transformed the male teen-dominated image of the industry; now that accolade might belong to San Francisco-based Zynga, which has built its success with titles that people play for free on Facebook, paying only for upgrades to get them ahead in Farmville or Cityville.Zynga, which is in the process of going public, has grown from a company with $19m in revenue in 2008 to $597m in 2010 and $829m in the first nine months of 2011, the last set of data available.Amid such disruption, then, it will come as a relief that rapper Example and dance act Chase &amp; Status will turning out for the launch of the latest console game Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3. Michael Pachter, a games industry analyst, told the Guardian that he is forecasting that the Activision title, priced at £40 in the UK, will sell 24m units worldwide – and the similarly combative Battlefield 3 from rival Electronic Arts, which costs about £35, another 12m copies globally. While younger and female consumers may prefer casual games, there is a core audience for the best in gaming technology.Helped by such on-screen violence, Screen Digest estimates that consumer spending on games in Europe will be down marginally on 2010 at €10.8bn. But as Nintendo's maiden loss shows, there is little doubt that the industry dynamics are changing. Not everybody who was previously successful will dominate the next level.
Developers who have been testing Apple's iOS 5 update for the iPhone range say that it does improve battery life, notably by reducing the amount of times that the phone uses location sensing.A number of people who have tested the 5.0.1 beta update, released by Apple earlier this week, told the Guardian that they have noticed improved battery life after they installed the update. The software is presently only available to registered developers for the iPhone, but Apple has said that it will make a version publicly available "in the next few weeks". The update will be available "over the air", so that it will not require a computer for installation.One developer told the Guardian that the "Setting Time Zone" preference had been fixed: "In the [iOS 5.0] betas and in the first release, turning it on would instantly bring up a purple arrow [in the phone's menu bar], indicating it was using your location - and this would stay on permanently. It really drained the battery." The "Setting Time Zone" preference was automatically set on in iOS 5.Another location service, for Traffic, has also been tweaked: "on the release version, if you turned on the location service for traffic, then went into Maps, looked at traffic, and then quit Maps, again the purple arrow would stay in the status bar. This is no longer the case – Maps stops using your location when you close it."The use of the location services system – which tries to poll nearby mobile phone masts, Wi-Fi networks and even the GPS location chip in the phone – can drain the battery rapidly because they become an always-on system which is constantly trying to check for any change in signal strength from the sources which would indicate movement. GPS in particular requires lots of processing power because GPS signals are below the level of thermal noise in most environments and require special amplification systems to determine the signal.The Guardian pointed out last week thatlocation services were suspectedof being behind the rapid battery drain experienced by some users."Without this fix the battery was lasting about four hours," said another developer who applied it to their iPhone 4S. "It's now up to the Apple stated times, around the same as the iPhone 4 … The battery life of iOS 5 has been strongly criticised and this issue now appears to be resolved." Apple has said that the iPhone 4S would have a standby time while connected to a Wi-Fi network of about 200 hours. The iPhone 4 and iPhone 3GS, which can also run iOS 5, have stated standby times of 300 hours. Apple hasnot provided any explanation for the difference.Another one said: "It's only been a day but (anecdotally at least) things seem to have improved."Siri, the built-in voice recognition system on the iPhone 4S, also now works better with Australian and Scottish accents, which had proved problematic for the initial version. However, one developer noted that iOS 5.0.1 has not fixed the "Siri volume bug", which they described thus: "After using Siri, if you lock your phone you'll hear that the phone's volume has been set to full (you'll hear the locking/unlocking sound really loud). Tapping volume up or down fixes it, and it returns to normal after 15 seconds: it seem Siri needs to boost the volume. This bug *hasn't* been addressed in 5.0.1." It is not known whether Apple plans to address this.The 5.0.1 update also includes better support for synchronising documents between services such as Instapaper.
Shares in Groupon rose by more than 50% on its Wall Street debut, pushing the temporary value of the online discount firm up to $20bn (£12.4bn).Groupon saw its share price rise to $31 in early trading on New York's Nasdaq exchange on Friday, 55% above the initial public offering price of $20 per share. The shares later eased back to $28 each.Andrew Mason's online discount firm had earlier faced down sceptics,raising $700m in its keenly-anticipated flotationto become the biggest IPO of an internet firm since Google in 2004.The huge investor demand in Groupon is in part due to the tiny slice of the company on offer. Groupon's 5% share offering makes it the smallest IPO of the past decade, according to capital markets data provider Ipreo."They wanted to have a decent pop on the stock so they didn't take that much public," said David Berman, a consumer technology and retail specialist at hedge fund firm Durban Capital. "They created demand by limiting supply, and they got the pop."Mason's stake in Groupon is now worth $1.3bn, while co-founder Eric Lefkofsky owns a $3.6bn stake. Early investors, including Morgan Stanley Investment Management and Fidelity, stand to reap dividends from their $8 a share early stakes in the company.At $13bn, Groupon has a price tag worth double the amount Google reportedly offered for the discount firm last year.Groupon's huge surge on first-day trading is dwarfed by that of LinkedIn, the professional social networking site that saw its shares double in value on the New York stock exchange in May.It remains to be seen how Groupon's shares will fare in the long term – and in spite of further scepticism over its high acquisition price for customers – compared with LinkedIn. On Friday the professional social networking site was trading at almost double its IPO price range of $45 a share.
Hooray for small mercies: Vlingo is to roll out an update for its Voicee Talk app on Samsung's flagship Galaxy S II phones that includes, among other things, an off switch.Why does that matter? Well, owners of the very expensive Galaxy SII had to hack their phone, and thereby invalidate their warranty, just to switch off the function thatwould launch every time you accidentally double-tapped the home button. Understandably, some users werequite annoyed.Now Vlingo tells us that it has been listening to customers and will introduce an off switch (without committing to a firm date)."After the device you have was shipped to market, we discussed with Samsung and agreed on a plan to make a change," says Erin Keleher, senior marketing manager at Vlingo."Future versions of Voice Talk will have a simple setting for users that can toggle off the double tap launch of Voice Talk."Apparently some markets have already had an update, but the UK and the rest of Europe is yet to follow.In ourlast postwe noted how customers appeared to lose out in the shotgun marriage of Samsung and Vlingo in February. After the Galaxy SII's launch, the pair decided that Voice Talk was missing major functionality. Why, then, is it still that way six months down the line?Our suspicion is that this is going to have to go through the carriers, because the settings are "baked" into the Samsung software. That means an over-the-air update (hooray!) which will have to be tested first by the carriers (boo). So don't hold your breath.
Microsoft has issued a temporary fix against a computer virus known as "Duqu" that hides in Word files and uses a "zero-day vulnerability" which can silently hand over control of PCs running Windows.The move came as security companies warned the virus seemed to have been altered since its first version appeared. They added that Duqu uses a formerly valid digital certificate that appeared to have been generated by a Taiwanese company.The computer giant responded swiftly to reports from security experts who warned the Duqu virus hadalready infected machines in the UK, France, Iraq and Iran.According tosecurity researchers, the virus was sent to targeted victims in the form of a Microsoft Word document attached to an email.Microsoft on Thursday urged Windows customers using Windows 7, Windows XP Service Pack 3 and Windows Vista Service Pack 2 toinstall its temporary security fix. The company said it had seen "low customer impact" but would continue to investigate the vulnerability. The security fix can be used on any Windows machine."Microsoft is investigating a vulnerability in a Microsoft Windows component, the Win32k TrueType font parsing engine," Microsoft saidin a message on its website."An attacker who successfully exploited this vulnerability could run arbitrary code in kernel mode. The attacker could then install programs; view, change, or delete data; or create new accounts with full user rights. We are aware of targeted attacks that try to use the reported vulnerability; overall, we see low customer impact at this time. This vulnerability is related to the Duqu malware."Upon completion of this investigation, Microsoft will take the appropriate action to help protect our customers. This may include providing a security update through our monthly release process or providing an out-of-cycle security update, depending on customer needs."The new virus, called Duqu because it creates files with the prefix "DQ", is said by researchers to be similar to the Stuxnet virus thattargeted SCADA control systems in Iran's uranium enrichment plantlast year."Duqu is essentially the precursor to a future Stuxnet-like attack," the security firm Symantec wroteon its official blog. "The threat was written by the same authors (or those that have access to the Stuxnet source code) and appears to have been created since the last Stuxnet file was recovered. The attackers are looking for information such as design documents that could help them mount a future attack on an industrial control facility."The first version of the virus connected with a server in India, but a more recent version tried to log on to a server in Belgium which has now been taken offline. Duqu consists of a driver file, a dynamic linked library (DLL) containing many embedded files, and a configuration file. Those are then installed by an installer built into the code.Duqu uses a valid digital certificate from a company based in Taiwan's capital Taipei whose private "keys" for generating the certificate were stolen earlier this year. It revoked the certificate on 14 October.The certificate allowed Duqu to bypass security checks on unknown drivers which Windows would apply. The Microsoft update denies system access to a particular DLL file.
The eagerly awaited Nokia Lumia 800 is the result of a shotgun marriage between Nokia's N9 (which was already being developed) and Microsoft's Windows Phone 7.5 Mango software.We all know why. Microsoft was desperate to expand its near-monopoly of desktops into mobile, while Nokia was watching the bottom fall out of its dominance of the smartphone market thanks to competition from iPhone and Android.But one shouldn't judge an offspring by the circumstances of its parentage. This is a sleekly good-looking phone with a beautifully engineered curved glass, 3.7in touchscreen in a body extruded out of a single piece of plastic.It is the best looking phone either company has produced, and when it works properly it has the best user interface (with easy-to-read blue tiles) either has produced – though not yet in the iPhone class.There's the rub. To get the most out of this phone – especially the way it integrates social networks such as Facebook, LinkedIn and Twitter on your home screen (with email, text and diary alerts) – you not only have to have your sim card snipped so it fits into the micro-sim slot, but you also have to sign up to the whole Microsoft "eco-system". The what? It's a walled garden, but rebranded.This will be no problem at all – indeed, a big advantage – to the many millions who are already on Hotmail or Windows Live and who will probably get a seamless transition to a fully integrated experience. That is a huge potential market.But to those, like me, who believe in plurality, it is a bit of a problem. I was able to upload Gmail to the home screen (though curiously not Twitter or Facebook yet, despite help from Nokia's technicians, which isn't an option for a typical buyer). It must be something simple, as others have succeeded and both are supported by the phone.Instead, I downloaded apps from the market, which worked very well from a secondary screen. There is a choice of Microsoft's Bing maps or Nokia Maps (which are great because the data is embedded on the phone, so you don't need a data connection). But when I tried to download Google Maps I got "wrong file type". Funny that. If you want to get the most out of this phone you will have to use it as your calendar and for other basics.Curiously, the photo hosting site Flickr, which I use daily, is not supported – presumably because they think everyone uploads to Facebook these days.Doubtless there will be an app later on. Even more curious, there is Bluetooth (for the carphone) but it won't transmit photos to your computer. Maybe the world is moving ahead too fast for me. At first I couldn't get  any connectivity at all but that turned out to be because the settings for Pay-as-you-go sim cards hadn't been installed.A big selling point for this phone is Nokia's 8-megapixel camera with Carl Zeiss lens. Nokia has been slow to market one of the big selling points – which is that if you have a cameraphone like this, you don't need a digital camera at all for nearly all purposes.People generally still don't realise this (digital cameras had record  sales last year) but they soon will. You can see aphoto taken by the Lumia here compared with over 40 others taken with rival cameras from the same spot.If Nokia is written on the outside of the phone, the inside is dominated by Microsoft, whose embryonic app store has ousted that of Nokia – which pioneered apps and once had well over a million developers on its books.It has some useful familiar apps – Shazam. Kindle, Last.fm etc on board – but is still well behind the iPhone and Android alternatives. The search engine is Microsoft's image-led Bing, with a voice command which works well for simple requests such as "Restaurants in Westminster".There are lots of other standard features such as radio and music, not to mention Microsoft's enterprise software – but the thing that gives it a comparative advantage over other models is its Xbox Live feature. Otherwise, this is a beautifully designed catch-up phone.A feature that could have given it an advantage over the iPhone was NFC (near field communication), which will be great for paying bills by waving your phone in front of the till. The Nokia N9 – which is being sold in some markets but not the UK – has NFC built in, and a slightly bigger screen. Why did the leave it out of the Lumia? Maybe they thought it might give a free pass to Google's upcoming "wallet" mobile payment system.Meanwhile, the Lumia (around £399 Sim-free or on contract) will be liked by lots of people, particularly in the Microsoft community – but it is not yet a match for the iPhone.And I'd still love to get my hands on an N9.•Victor Keegan'sCity Poemsapp for iPhone/Pad links poems to London streets that inspired them, using using satellite navigation.Geo Poemsgeo-tags all his poetry books.Shakespeare's Londondoes the same for all the buried memories of Shakespeare's life in London.
Poor old Sonic. The jet-heeled blue hedgehog suffered an apparently permanent loss of his mojo overnight, going from one of the games industry's most iconic characters to an anachronism.That sorry transition took place in 1998, when Sonic Adventure for the Dreamcast saw him make the leap from 2D to 3D, but the appealing side-scrolling gameplay that made previous Sonic games such smash hits also got lost when the extra dimension was added.Not before time, though, Sega has applied some deep thought to what used to be its most precious franchise, and returned to its roots with Sonic Generations. And we're happy to report that it marks a full-blown comeback for our speedy blue friend.Much of Sonic Generations involves the side-scrolling action we've been craving for years (and which a new generation has been discovering through versions of the original Sonic the Hedgehog games for smartphones and game download services).There are plenty of modern twists and some clever devices in the game, most notably the presence of two versions of Sonic – one classic and one 3D. The 3D Sonic is slightly taller and has different abilities – most notably a homing attack that lets you jump then smash into objects that you face, including enemies as well as Sonic's trademark bounce-pads.Every stage of the game can be played in full side-scrolling mode by switching to retro Sonic, and even 3D Sonic stages, while mostly taking an into-the-screen viewpoint, include side-scrolling sections.Sonic Generations' story cleverly explains the presence of two incarnations of Sonic: at a birthday picnic, a time-travelling monster appears, kidnapping Sonic's friends. To get them back, he must complete each stage, as both versions of himself.The game's worlds are separated by boss-battles, and to unlock those, you must collect keys acquired by completing some very clever challenges, most of which involve the extended cast of characters such as Knuckles, Tails, Amy and Vector, who have co-starred with Sonic over the years.Sega has concentrated on recreating the original games' sense of bewildering speed, but perhaps the game's most impressive aspect is the way in which the 3D, into-the-screen sequences have at last been rendered fun to play, thanks mainly to the homing attack, but also to Sonic's speed boost (topped up, naturally, by collecting rings).All the old sonic conventions are present and correct – the loop-the-loops, springs that send you miles up into the air and ping you around like a pinball, sequences of precise platforming, spike traps that take you unawares and alternative routes accessible through nailing jumps at just the right moment.Sonic's skateboard makes the odd appearance, and special rainbow-coloured jumps let him perform mid-air tricks. He has acquired some new abilities, too, such as a power-up that turns him into a pink ball of spikes which can roll up walls and across ceilings, and reshape platforms by moving cogs along wires.The boss battles, which involve Sonic pursuing then attacking giant robots bearing the unmistakable stamp of Dr Eggman, are pretty decent. And even though the main game is pretty meaty, there are loads of extra challenges, which display an inventiveness that takes Sonic well out of his comfort zone.Some of those resemble boss battles, as they, too, adhere to the chase-then-attack blueprint. Others see you doing things like catching musical notes thrown by Vector the croc or using Knuckles' ability to dig for rings.Visually, Sonic Generations is impeccable: bright, colourful and universally appealing. At last, after well over a decade, Sonic has been given a starring vehicle that doesn't make a mockery of his glorious heritage, but instead celebrates it.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 is almost certain to be one of the biggest entertainment releases of the year.But with two studios and almost 200 development staff working on the title, what does the job involve for individual team members?In October, I visited Infinity Ward and Sledgehammer Games to get an inside look on the development process.As well as speaking to the studio heads (read more hereandhere), I also talked to lead creatives in the animation, design and audio departments about their roles in the Modern Warfare machine.What goes into the creation of a major title like Modern Warfare? What software packages are involved, and what skills do you need to work in game design at this level? I asked the MW3 team those very questions...Character animationZach Volker, lead animator, Infinity WardThe naturalistic movement of both characters and vehicles in Modern Warfare 3 are the responsibility of Volker and his team. They work predominantly inAutodesk Maya, using a graph editor to tweak motion capture footage and create animation sequences. The skeleton of each character is built and set by the studio's team of specialist riggers. Animators are then able to manipulate every joint on the character model across three axes. There are more than 100 joints in each skeleton, and the character's skin is then bound to the bones so it deforms correctly when moving. It's a complex and intricate process."We're always looking to mix things up and keep the series fresh," explains Volker. "One of things we did in MW3 was replace all the sprints and runs from multiplayer. In the previous game, you'd sort of hunch over and bob and weave; we saved that for the SMG class, but now all the other classes have their own runs. If you sprint with the assault class, you do it with the gun pointing down – it's a very different silhouette. The sniper, though, has his gun across his body. We do watch how real soldiers move, but we also take cues from Hollywood, and the exaggerated expectations that action movies have brought about. For example, if you fire a shotgun at someone in real life, they'll slump to the floor, but movies have taught us that they fly 10 feet backwards. So that's what we have in the game!"One of the most complex animation sequences in MW3 is the spectacular tube train crash near the end of the London-based level, Mind the Gap. "Me and the visual effects artist David Johnson did that scene together," says Volker. "There were a lot of iterations, it was a good two month's work – which is a long time to devote to one sequence. Realistically, there's no way the train would behave like that, but it's naturalistic enough to be believable. We watched YouTube footage of train crashes from security cameras, but there wasn't much out there. There's where the creativity comes in."Tips for prospective games animatorsZach studied traditional animation atCalArts(on a course set up by Walt Disney, no less), but says that those old school 2D animation skills are not as important these days – it's all about 3D animation packages.He also says that qualifications are not strictly necessary. "A lot of the animators here don't have a degree. It's all about your showreel. The things we're looking for are technically ability – do you understand how humans move? It's difficult, because the slightest inaccuracy immediately looks and feels wrong. But also, how can you move a human in a way that's more entertaining and creative than anyone else?"We'll often have these situations where we have to animate a character who's, say, crashed a helicopter and now has to take out a number of enemies on the ground. The possible implementations of that are unlimited – I might have an animator who is technically proficient but lacking in creativity, so the helicopter crashes authentically, but might in a really boring way. We need to find someone who makes us say, 'Oh wow, I didn't think of that! The tail rotor clipping the building, and then the chopper flipping over and taking out that tree!' What we're looking for is, 'how can you do this differently from anyone else applying for the job?' "Volker suggests getting hold of Maya; students are able to experiment with a free cut-down version of the package. He also recommends a book calledThe Animator's Survival Kitby Richard E Williams ("It'll get you through the basics, like a bouncing ball or a ticking clock – these are the sorts of things you start with.") andAnimation Mentor, an online school started by a several Pixar animators ("It's fantastic and really affordable").Applicants to Infinity Ward's animation department are usually given a test as part of the process. They may, for example, get a couple of weeks to animate a character through a series of actions. "It might be run, jump, then take cover, fire your weapon, then get hit," says Volker. "And it's easy to tell if they've tried to pull one over on us by inserting motion caption data!"Environmental animationChristopher Stone, animation director, Sledgehammer GamesHow much work goes into the environmental destruction in Modern Warfare 3? Just ask Christopher Stone. In one section of the Berlin-based Scorched Earth mission, the Russians blow up a building so that it halts a tank convoy. It's a few moments of screen time, but it represented several weeks of work for the Sledgehammer and Infinity Ward animation teams."Our hope was to run an actual simulation of the building collapsing to get all the elements to look really dynamic," says Stone. "But the problem was, with a simulation you have no control over where everything is going to go. So what we ended up creating was one huge animated sequence with well over 250 hand-animated parts, all flying exactly where we need them to go – every part is tailored so it zips past your head. The great thing with an FPS is, you are the camera, you determine the framing, so it is very cinematic."As with the character animation, the sequence was modelled in Maya, with flight paths planned for every chunk of masonry and flipped car. "With a shot like this we start with the baseline, which is the building itself collapsing," explains Stone. "Then we layer things upon that. Originally, we were going to have the collapse taking place further away from the player, but it just didn't look cool – it's got to feel like its' about to topple on top of you."Stone reckons the instantaneous pipeline between Maya model and game engine has been a huge boon to MW3. The artists don't have to wait hours for a scene to render into the game engine; it iterates almost immediately, so they can try stuff out and then continually tweak it. "So the building starts collapsing and things start tumbling toward you, a car goes over your head, debris is spinning out," says Stone. "And I can pause the shot, right in the middle, look at where the character is and meticulously plan the whole thing. That's pretty crazy. As an animation director for ten years at EA, none of the tech we had there could come close to doing something like this; I couldn't have done this shot, because the iteration time to do something like that would have been crazy."Iteration, says Stone, is king in this industry; the more you can iterate, the more you can polish each element. "You don't know if anything is going to work until you see it in the game," he says, "and again, we're back to the awesome tools and the engine we have here. To be able to go in here, move something in Maya, hit one button and immediately see a change in the game, it let us get every frame, every second, just right.""We have big meetings every week, where the creative directors sit in a room and we'll watch a single shot – maybe a large explosion – 40 or 50 times over half an hour. And then we throw out ideas: what if there's a guy in the car and he tumbles out. And because we can iterate quickly, we can try these ideas."Stone also talks about the sense of naturalism in the game, and how the game distorts reality for its own ends. The team worked with Hollywood mo-cap talent, but all their moves have to be heightened, because the running speed is much faster in the game than it is in real-life, and because animations such as changing a mag have to be exaggerated to give them a cinematic impact."We're always on the edge between reality and non-reality," he says. "I mean, would an armyreallycollapse a building to keep enemy tanks from advancing? I don't know, maybe. We want things to seem spectacular, but they've also got to be feasible. There's a very fine line between awesome and camp."I think that might be my favourite quote about game design.Level designBret Robbins, Creative Director, SledgehammerBret Robbins was the creative director on EA's sci-fi horror adventure Dead Space before following colleagues Michael Condrey and Glen Schofield to Sledgehammer. He's been working with Infinity Ward's creative staff to oversee the design of the levels in MW3."It's about creating a real mood and atmosphere," he explains. "In Dead Space we had to sell this futuristic world and the only way to do that was to ensure everything around the character supported the fiction and made the player feel part of it. It's the same with this, we have to sell the authenticity of the military experience, we have to make it seem as real as possible even though the situation that you're in is totally fantastical."If the details around you are real, the more you'll buy the crazier stuff. So we came into this thinking about ways we could extend the storytelling and emotion, to increase the visceral experience for the player. But it was a collaborative effort, as far as setting the tone of each level, I worked a lot with Infinity Ward on that."The design teams use a level editor based on the content management system, Radiant. It allows them to swiftly build and test rough missions. "You can block things out quickly," he says. "The tools are very robust and the engine is fast so you can get a rough sense of a level. So once we have a rough layout in our heads – how it should feel or look – we create a version in the level editor, populate it quickly, and right away you can sit down with a controller and run through it, imagining how this big yellow block could be turned into a building, or where the enemies could come out of. I always believe in getting the level playable as fast as possible."And the secret of a good FPS map? "You could write a book on best practices for making a shooter," laughs Robbins. "All the things you need to consider – proper lines of sight, good verticality, the careful spacing of combat encounters – there's an encyclopedia of knowledge."Dialogue is a fairly cheap tool in terms of Campaign mission design. Voice actors are quite expensive, but you can iterate on a script quite cheaply using temp actors. This can completely change the mood of a level. I didn't realise how important it was. It's huge."Tips for young game designers"I started as a game tester, and that was a good introduction," says Robbins. "You learn all the pieces of how a game works, and you need to be articulate enough to explain problems."He also highlights the benefits of getting involved in the indie scene, and building your own games, however simple. "There's now this whole new market for these games," he says. "It might be hard to get yourself noticed, but you can pick up Unity pretty cheap, you can become part of the mod community – there are ways to get your designs out there."If you make an indie game it's a nice pure example of a vision executed. To me as a game maker, Braid was very inspirational – I can't say if any of that has translated directly into Call of Duty, but it was great storytelling in a very simple way. It was a great example of what game design can do."Art and environmentsJoe Salud, art director, SledgehammerSalud works with his opposite number at Infinity Ward to ensure a consistent look and feel for the Modern Warfare 3 universe. "We try to keep a natural look," he says. "We don't do a lot of colour grading or post-process colour tweaking."I ask him what he thinks of Battlefield's more grainy, documentary feel. "I haven't played much of that game, but from the screenshots and trailers, it looks like they do a lot of post-processing effects, lots of lens flares, and saturated oranges – it looks like they're going for a very technical look. But yes, it looks good."As for the move from mostly rural locations to a range of recognisable urban centres, Salud sees a tricky compromise in maintaining believability. "Peoples' impressions of cities are very stereotypical and exaggerated," he says. "So when they try to recreate them, it can look a bit like a theme park. But then, if you're too authentic, you may not be giving people what they want. You can't give them Paris and not the Eiffel tower – they need to at least see it. It's a balancing game. "Hence, the London level has Canary Wharf looming in the background, and when the tube train shoot-out ends, we come out at Westminster. Meanwhile, Berlin features the Sony building at the Potsdamer Platz, as well as the Reichstag. We even get to see the Bahn tower collapse.For gameplay purposes, the areas are often combined or altered. In Paris, for example, some of the streets were widened, and the main intersection featured in the Iron Lady mission is a mix of two real avenues.But it's not just the big tourist attractions; the designers have to capture the contrasting cultures, the minutiae that defines London or Paris. "We did a lot of research into the little strokes of the cities," says Salud. "It's often about the stuff the player doesn't notice, the subconscious detail. You have to do a lot of storytelling with objects; if we're in an area that people have had to evacuate quickly, we'll have chairs and cans knocked over, picture frames will be off kilter, beds unmade … there are little micro-stories in every scene."As for tools, the art team at Sledgehammer work mostly with Photoshop, Maya and a program named Zbrush byPixologic, which effectively paints in 3D. "Its awesome," says Salud, whose team uses it to create rubble and other explosion damage. "Everything comes out as real geometry, then you can bake that into a normal map – the results are extremely convincing and the way it reacts to light is better."Tips for young game artists"It depends on where you want to specialise," says Salud. "There are so many different aspects these days. There are people who paint textures, there are modellers, and that can branch off, so some people specialise in characters, others in architecture. We have lighters and that goes really deep, there's a lot of stuff like sub-surface scattering – a lot of those catchphrases that are popular on the internet. Environment artists tend to be able to get more involved in the game development process because they work closely with the designers and tackle a lot of problems. For that role, learning Maya and studying architecture are useful."Game audioDon Veca, audio director and lead sound designer, David Swenson, at Sledgehammer GamesSound is big in Modern Warfare 3. From the crackling fire of a machine pistol to the resonating hum of a surfacing submarine, each set-piece is a symphony of noisy military hardware.Intriguingly, there's no equivalent of Maya in the audio department, no single over-riding application. "It's really personal," says Veca, who favours the Steinberg package,Nuendo. "There are so many different plug-ins." Swenson agrees: "I havePro Toolsset up on my Mac, but on my PC, which is my main development machine, I haveReaper, I haveSound Forge, I have Steinberg'sWaveLab… They all have their strengths, I use them when I need them. Every audio designer, based on their experiences, uses different tools. Some guys here have worked their whole careers with Pro Tools.Apparently, there were efforts to switch the whole team to Nuendo, but some found it too hard to move away from tools they'd used their whole creative lives. "When you're creating it needs to be very zen," says Veca. "You should only be thinking about the art – as soon as you're worrying about tools and menus, it breaks your train of thought. You need to be able to fly as fast as you can during the sound design process. You need to be in that zone."Tips for young audio designers"If you have a guy who can work very quickly, that's very important," says Swenson. "We have a lot to do in a very short space of time. Another thing that really helps is adaptability, all the sound designers here have a general idea of how other software packages work – I can figure out Nuendo well enough so I can work with Don, even though I'm not as quick!"Both Don and David agree that understanding other elements of the game development process is valuable. "I do talks at local colleges running game designer courses and I'm constantly saying, it's not just about learning Pro Tools, it's not just about recording – you should take a programming class!"I'm not kidding, take a course in C++, or anything that's algorithmic, or logic orientated. You have to know how a computer really works – that's at least half of the job. I think the new, modern day sound designers are the young kids who have high-tech skills. But then, you can't forget about the art. It's a combination of both. And that's hard to find…"
China has criticised a US intelligence report that named the country as the world's "most active and persistent" culprit of cyber espionage.Areport by the US national counterintelligence executiveon Thursday took the rare step of explicitly naming China and Russia as leading perpetrators of online spying.But China's foreign ministry spokesman Hong Lei dismissed the report in a regular news briefing in Beijing."Online attacks are notable for spanning national borders and being anonymous. Identifying the attackers without carrying out a comprehensive investigation and making inferences about the attackers is both unprofessional and irresponsible," he said. "I hope the international community can abandon prejudice and work hard with China to maintain online security."The US government report to Congress, which examined industrial espionage over two years to 2011, said foreign intelligence services had stepped up attempts to steal economic and infrastructure information about US technology that cost millions of dollars to develop.The report explicitly named "Chinese actors" as "the world's most active and persistent perpetrators of economic espionage". It said the intelligence community had traced an "onslaught" of attacks back to China, but could not confirm who was responsible.It said Russia's intelligence services were conducting a range of activities to collect sensitive economic information from US targets. The report warned that foreign criminals could get massive amounts of valuable data from computer networks with little risk of being detected.The US counterintelligence body concluded that it faces "a growing and persistent threat" from foreign cyber criminals."We judge that the governments of China and Russia will remain aggressive and capable collectors of sensitive US economic information and technologies, particularly in cyberspace," the report said.The grave warning comes just days after a draft report by the US-China economic and security review commissionsuggested China was responsible for attempts to interfere with US satellites.William Hague on Wednesdayrefused to confrontChina over the growing number of cyber espionage claims facing the country. The foreign secretary told the Cyberspace conference in London that he was not "judgmental" and that the source of cyber attacks was "very difficult to verify".The US counterintelligence report said China and Russia see themselves as "strategic competitors" of the US and are the "most aggressive" collectors of US economic information and technology.The report claimed Chinese intelligence circles frequently attempt to exploit people with family ties to China "who can use their insider access to corporate networks [in US private or public bodies] to steal trade secrets using removable media devices or email".
For the better part of a year, EA has been hyping Battlefield 3 as the game that will bring down Call Of Duty. This approach has doubtless provided an awareness boost for DICE's military shooter, its advertorial wagon hitched sturdily to the zeitgeist surrounding Activision's mega-selling shooter. "Above and beyond the call," claim the billboard ads that currently clutter major US cities.Thus, nearly every single CoD: MW3 feature and preview so far has had to address EA's game in some way. The only way you could not be aware of Battlefield 3 is if you have no interest in video games, or if you've been locked in an isolation ward for the past year and a half.Of course, all of EA's Activision-baiting can't help but impact negatively on Battlefield 3 now it's been released. To wit, there is now the expectation among some gamers, whether fair or not, that Battlefield 3's success depends, to some degree, on it beating CoD at its own game.This was never going to happen. While there are similarities between the two franchises, they couldn't be more different in the one area most shooters rely on to keep the affections of the faithful tightly in their grasp – the online multiplayer.With Battlefield, the multiplayer was present and correct long before CoD's sales figures became the brass ring to shoot for. It's not surprising, then, that this mode is Battlefield 3's strongest asset – and is indeed one of the strongest examples of this mode in the medium. DICE has taken what made the franchise great to begin with in the seminal Battlefield 1942 and then refined and polished everything until it gleams with a diamond-tipped edge.More than any other online multiplayer shooter (with perhaps the exception of MAG), Battlefield 3 makes the player feel like they're engaged in an ongoing ground war.Arriving in the conflict zone via a spawn point or parachute, players are immediately aware of the size and scope of the battle zones they'll be traversing. They could drop in right in the middle of a gun-battle, or land near a couple of vehicles and have to cross some distance to pick a fight.The action, when it comes, is eerily realistic; players are advised to take in the contents of their surroundings when the echoing pops of gunfire sound off, as tactics, cover and high ground can all be crucial factors in establishing supremacy in any gun battle.That said, while reality dictates that the most organised and skilled teams with the best working knowledge of the terrain are more likely to be victorious in Battlefield 3, players aren't a forced into a style of play they don't like.This isn't CoD, where a fast-paced, close-quarters run-and-gun fragfest is the order of the day. This is the Battlefield experience gone widescreen; it's an open, realistic affair where teamwork is encouraged, vehicles are available and maps are meticulously constructed to allow different styles of play to coexist.The only real rule of thumb in the multiplayer is that of common sense; desert your teammates and run obliviously out in to the open, and you'll find yourself dying and dying and dying some more.The modes and class systems have received a couple of tweaks and tucks and there's still an RPG element in which players are rewarded with new upgrades, gizmos and promotions.The principal draw in online, though, has less to do with soldier classes, match types and unlockables, and more to do with creating your own moments of brilliance – either solo or with your teammates – in the combat zone. The sense of freedom and potential for improvisation is the best thing about Battlefield 3.We haven't been furnished with a PC copy to review, but we can point out a couple of disparities between the console and PC versions from several hands-on previews we've attended. Firstly, up to 64 players can take part in BF3's online wars on the PC, but console owners are limited to 24-man battles.PC owners will claim that as a rule their platform has the edge over consoles in all games, but with BF3, the difference in quality between PCs and consoles is less pronounced in the multiplayer than it is in the game's campaign, provided players load the HD install available for the Xbox 360.While the lighting and sound in Battlefield 3 was uniformly excellent across the modes on the modes console copy we played, the campaign experience was frequently marred by visual kinks and bugs.In the time we spent with the game, we witnessed anomalies such as floating corpses, troops that sprinted at snail's pace and one instance in which our entire platoon entered a combat area by walking through a closed fire-escape door.EA has told us that it is aware of these glitches and that patches and updates are forthcoming. But for now, we have to note that, due to the fact that Battlefield 3's overall experience puts such a premium on realism, it's alarming how often the game we were sent to review pulls the player out of the proceedings with glitches that break the fourth wall.Whether or not DICE is working to remedy all of this is beside the point, though, as it won't improve the experience of playing the campaign, which is Battlefield 3's big weakness.It's a short, bland affair shot through with an uninteresting story – which seems bizarre when you consider it's about missing nukes and marines searching for terrorists in the Middle East. There are a couple of note-worthy levels – a gun battle on the streets of Tehran, which escalates to Michael Bay-worthy proportions, and a dogfight in an F-18 are two high points. But for the most part, players will find themselves hurtling down corridors, moving from one uninspired gun-battle to the next.Perhaps the worst aspect of the campaign, though, is how rigid, scripted and restrictive it feels when compared to the game's multiplayer. There are precious few instances where the open, multi-purpose style of play from the online mode is applicable – or even allowed – in the campaign.There are also a couple of instances where the game's realistic elements eat into the player's enjoyment of the proceedings. After a while, they may become fed up with being unable to see opponents who are a few metres away due to the amount of dust their firefight has thrown up. This, by the way, doesn't impair the vision of the AI, which at times strikes at the player with laser-guided accuracy, and at others, seems to be unaware of them when they're emptying a clip into their compatriots from close range.Finally there's the co-op mode, a series of mini-missions whose story runs alongside the single-player campaign. It's a fun, if slightly brief diversion from the other two options. It's less constrictive than the single-player campaign, in that some improvisation is allowed from the two players in how they tackles some missions, but it also contains some of its weaknesses – such as the wonky AI.So Battlefield 3 feels like three distinctly different experiences offered in one confusing game, which, to be honest, has proven hard to judge on its merits as a package.Do we praise the game for its incredible multiplayer or mark it down for its woeful campaign? There are those who would posit the opinion that the campaign shouldn't affect the score because most people who buy this game won't play it anyway and instead will spend all their time in the multiplayer.Then again, the counter argument to this is, why bother with including a campaign at all and instead use the extra disc space to provide more modes, maps, options, weapons and other content for the superb multiplayer?The answer is, of course, that Battlefield 3 was supposed to bring down CoD, and without a campaign – which seems to be DICE's approximation of a CoD experience – this wouldn't have been possible. This is unfortunate, because the instances in which DICE seem to have tried to beat their rivals at their own game have resulted in Battlefield 3's weakest content.Where they've ignored their competitor completely and stuck to what they do best, they've created one of the finest experiences in the medium. There's a lesson in that somewhere…• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
A coalition of Hollywood film studios, record companies and publishers has formally requested that BT blockThe Pirate Bay, one of the largest illegal filesharing sites in the world,after winning a landmark high-court ruling designed to enforce UK copyright law.A coalition led by music industry body the BPI has written a letter to BT, the UK's largest internet service provider with 6 six milllion customers, asking the telecoms company to block The Pirate Bay voluntarily.Fronted by trade bodies including BPI, Pact, the Motion Picture Association and the Publishers Association – the coalition aims to force BT's hand after last week's high-court ruling last week set a precedent ordering it to block filesharing site Newzbin2.Justice Arnold ordered BT to block Newzbin2, which Hollywood studios accused of promoting illegal filesharing "on a grand scale", within two weeks, potentially opening floodgates for a wave of requests to block similar illegal download services.The coalition has requested BT block access to The Pirate Bay or, if it refuses to do so, consent to a court order.A BT spokesman said: "We can confirm we are now in receipt of a letter from the BPI [ requesting that BT block the Pirate Bay site]. BT is considering its response.In line with the Newzbin judgment, a court order will be needed before any blocking could begin. BT is currently focused on implementation of that order.""Now that the high court has clarified the law, as a sector we need to keep up the pressure on these illegal sites," said John Smith, general secretary of the Musicians' Union.Since 2009, a number of ISPs in other European countries, including Denmark, Ireland, Italy, Belgium and Sweden, have been ordered to implement blocking measures against The Pirate Bay.The BPI chief executive, Geoff Taylor, said The Pirate Bay was "no more than a huge scam" defrauding the global creative sector."We would not tolerate Counterfeits R Us on the high street – if we want economic growth, we cannot accept illegal rip-off sites on the internet either," he said.
Shares in Groupon soared more than 50% in New York as the online discount firm became the biggest internet flotation since Google.Groupon raised $700m (£437m) in a hotly anticipated initial public offering that saw its newly listed stock climb from $20 to $31.14 in early trading on the Nasdaq.The listing was reportedly close to being pulled in September, as Groupon's founder, Andrew Mason, rounded on critics who had raised concerns about the company's cash burn – it has lost $238m over the past nine months – and the scale of the competitive threats it faces.Groupon pushed ahead but Friday's $12bn valuation is below the lofty price tags that had been bandied about prior to the listing, with some estimates claiming that the business was worth up to $25bn.The flotation proceeds rank Groupon as the largest internet IPO since Google raised $1.7bn in 2004.The road to Wall Street has beena tumultuous onefor the Chicago-based company. Selling online discounts for everything from foot spas to nouvelle cuisine, Groupon has faced months of criticism from regulators and analysts, raising doubts as to whether the company would go public at all.Despite putting off its IPO, Groupon has been seen as a litmus test for other private internet companies seeking to go public, including online games maker Zynga and Facebook.But behind the scenes investors scrabbled for Groupon shares, which were 10 times oversubscribed. Its tiny float represents just over 5% of the company's stock, which has helped to drive up demand and the price.Rob Romero, head of technology-focused hedge fund Connective Capital Management, remained cautious. "Groupon is expensive. The $12.8bn valuation is only achievable because of the low float," he told Reuters.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamOpen Source Procurement Toolkit &gt;&gt; Cabinet Office"The Government first set out its policy on the use of open source in 2004. This was restated in both 2009 and 2010. The Government ICT Strategy states that "Where appropriate, Government will procure open source solutions." To support this, Action 3 of the Strategy says that "To create a level playing field for the use of innovative ICT solutions, the Government will publish a toolkit for procurers on best practice for evaluating the use of open source solutions." "The following set of documents make up that toolkit...The purpose of this toolkit is to ensure that there is a level playing field for open source and proprietary software and that some of the myths associated with open source are dispelled. "It is intended for those who need to consider, evaluate or procure open source solutions as well as anyone just wanting to know more about open source." We strongly suspect this is the work of Liam Maxwell. In which case he has moved fast. This bodes well.Steve Jobs: What an Asshole... &gt;&gt; Digital Music NewsOne of the "hot debates" at Digital Music News. Oh, why?Syria crackdown gets Italy firm's aid with US-Europe spy gear &gt;&gt; Bloomberg"As Syria's crackdown on protests has claimed more than 3,000 lives since March, Italian technicians in telecom offices from Damascus to Aleppo have been busy equipping President Bashar al-Assad's regime with the power to intercept, scan and catalog virtually every e-mail that flows through the country. "Employees of Area SpA, a surveillance company based outside Milan, are installing the system under the direction of Syrian intelligence agents, who've pushed the Italians to finish, saying they urgently need to track people, a person familiar with the project says." The new arms traders: but it's online arms.King Crimson can't get their music off Grooveshark. So they cc'd Digital Music News... &gt;&gt; Digital Music NewsFascinating. Robert Fripp isn't the sort to give any quarter and he clearly does not live Grooveshark. And Grooveshark clearly isn't as artist-friendly as it suggests, judging by the comments.Motorola Xoom 2 pictures and hands-on &gt;&gt; Pocket-lint"The Xoom 2 in the UK is being sold as Wi-Fi only, but interestingly the pre-production device we saw today had both a SIM and microSD card slot under a flap on the bottom. A Moto Agent told us that these were disabled, the 3G radio not included, but there could be potential to activate the microSD card slot down the line. "We got the impression that that wasn't on the immediate agenda, so you'll be looking at 16GB of internal storage. Motorola told us they were looking towards cloud solutions via MotoCast, rather than seeing users fill the device with lots of content." Our article suggested that Xoom sales will fall to zero sometime in the next month or so. This would be why, then. Not sure about Goog... Motorola's idea that MotoCast will succeed in attracting anyone: why would you buy a Xoom before a Kindle Fire?IE9 Share on Windows 7 keeps moving along - nearly 35% in the US &gt;&gt; Windows Team blogThe worldwide browser share on Windows 7 is interesting: a three-way split between Chrome, Firefox and IE9. Of course, Windows 7 isn't the whole of Windows, so this is an intriguingly skewed version of the Windows world. We await the Google Chrome team's version.Adding responses to comments &gt;&gt; Inside Guardian blog"Today we have added a new feature to the Guardian's commenting system - the ability to respond directly to a comment, and to let that commenter know that you have replied." Yeah, yeah, we hear you - no post-facto editing. It's possible that the heat death of the universe will precede that function's availability.How a Javascript upgrade brought down our commenting platform &gt;&gt; Guardian developer blog"It can't hurt if we put 'attr(disabled) in can it?""You should have your tongue ripped out": the reality of sexist abuse online &gt;&gt; New StatesmanImportant problem. What on earth do we do with the online mysogynists? Helen Lewis writes: "What does it feel like to be subjected to regular rape threats or death threats? To have people send you emails quoting your address, or outlining their sexual fantasies about you? That's the reality of what many female bloggers experience. It's my belief that "normal" net users simply don't realise what it feels like to open the front door to a chorus of commenters howling at you about your opinions, your name, your appearance, your sexuality. If they did, we might all have a little less tolerance, be a little less ready to excuse sexist abuse as part of the "rough and tumble" of blogging."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
A selection of 12 apps for you today:Grolly's Animal AdventuresYoung Internet has released this iPad book-app that wants to teach children about the animals of the world. It's a digital encyclopedia with more than 25 animals and voice narration. The first chapter is free, with more to be purchased via in-app payments.iPadFamigo SandBoxFamigo SandBox is a great idea: an app that locks down an Android smartphone or tablet to only child-friendly apps before you hand the device over to your child. It also provides recommendations for new apps your kids may like, and provides parents with a weekly report on which apps they've been using.AndroidSoundhoundMusic identification service Soundhound has released an official Windows Phone app, offering similar features to the versions on other platforms: identify songs playing or hum/sing them into the microphone, while getting preview clips, lyrics and buy links. It's just gone live at the time of writing, but can be found by searching for SoundHound in the Windows Phone Marketplace.Windows PhoneOinkOink is the first app from Digg co-founder Kevin Rose's new venture: apps incubator Milk. Released for iPhone, it wants to get people rating items rather than places: a specific pizza at a restaurant rather than the restaurant itself, or individual rollercoasters at a theme park, for example. Sharing and commenting are built in too.iPhoneBuddhifyBuddhify's tagline promises an "on-the-go meditation app for hipsters, not hippies", with the aim of helping people squeeze meditation into their crowded work and social lives. The £1.99 app has 32 audio track, and even includes a "two-player meditation mode" for pairs of users.iPhone / AndroidJames Caan Business SecretsEntrepreneur and Dragon's Den dragon James Caan has notched up more than 90,000 downloads of his free iPhone app in eight weeks. Now it's been ported to Android. The aim is to provide tips and advice to business owners and wannabe entrepreneurs.AndroidOh! Edo TownsJapanese mobile games developer Kairosoft has a burgeoning fanbase in the West for its addictive simulation games. Oh! Edo Towns should continue to attract new players. It's a town-building game set in Edo-period Japan, with players tasked with building the strongest castle town in the land.iPhoneSmartsoundsSmartsounds is an app from O2 in Ireland, based on an upcoming branded gig in Dublin with Westlife and Pixie Lott, among others. The app will have contests and a Q&amp;A feature to ask the artists questions, but most interestingly, it will also be selling a livestream of the event using Apple's in-app purchases system.iPhoneSky NewsBSkyB has taken its free Sky News app to BlackBerry, offering a mixture of text, video and radio news, as well as sharing via Facebook, Twitter, email and BBM.BlackBerryCrime City HDFunzio is one of the emerging publishers in the mobile world focusing on freemium social games. Its latest title is an iPad-specific port for Crime City HD, which takes the well-worn gangster formula and wears it some more – but with more depth and nicer visuals.iPadWizardry Labyrinth of Lost SoulsWizardry started life as a downloadable game for PlayStation 3, but has now been ported to the iPhone as a freemium game. It's a first-person dungeon crawling RPG, which makes new use of Apple's in-app purchases to buy scrolls and scripts.iPhoneGoogle OffersThe US-only Google Offers service is looking to give Groupon a bloody nose by highlighting daily deals and discounts. Now it has an Android app to take the service mobile.Android
The success of Android handsets, which are now used by around a quarter of all UK mobile users, has come at a price for mobile operators in the form of higher than average calls relating to hardware problems from customers, a new study says.The findings, based on analysis of more than 600,000 technical support calls to carriers handled in the past 12 months, also discovered that when carriers upgrade customers' operating systems it causes a substantial spike in calls from customers who have problems with the upgrade.The combined cost means that Android devices are costing carriers worldwide an extra $2bn (£1.25bn), the company estimates through the cost of support calls and repairs. That combines to affect the devices' profitability to carriers, because the cost of calls are part of the "total cost" of the phones and has to be taken into consideration, notes WDS, which runs call centre systems and provides "wireless experience management", and which analysed the content and outcome of the calls.The company suggests that the fragmentation in the Android market has led to a higher than average tendency to see hardware failures:12.6% of technical support calls on Android relate to hardware, versus 9% for Windows Phone, 8% for Apple's iOS and 5.5% for BlackBerry.14% of technical support calls on Android relate to hardware, versus 11% for Windows Phone, 7% for Apple's iOS and 6% for BlackBerry. (Corrected: original graph was incorrect.)Update:The figures are based on total call volumes which split between platforms as follows:• Android: circa 310,000 (52% of calls)• iOS: c 130,000 (22% of calls)• BlackBerry OS: c 120,000 (20% of calls)• Windows Phone: c 40,000 (6.7% of calls).For contrast, Gartner's estimated market shares earlier this year for smartphones were: Android 40%; iOS 18%; RIM 15%; Windows Phone ~0-5%.That means that hardware call volumes would be as follows:• Android: 43,400 of 310,000• iOS: 9,100 of 130,000• BlackBerry: 7,200 of 120,000• Windows Phone: 4,400 of 40,000WDS issued a statement to the Guardian after this article was originally published:"Within the Android sample, the majority of calls related to the following manufacturers: HTC, Huawei, ZTE, Samsung, Motorola, LG, Acer, Sony Ericsson, INQ, Pantech, Google (Nexus). The sample was weighted towards market share leaders (HTC, Samsung, Motorola) to ensure results were not weighted towards lower-end products. In the context of the public study we did not publish individual OEM / model performance (for commercial reasons!) and nor did we feel it added significant benefit. The goal was to highlight fragmentation on an OS level across the complete portfolio of devices."Hardware problems by smartphone platform based on support calls. Source: WDCHardware problems are a particular concern for carriers because they are expensive to fix, whereas software or configuration problems can often be fixed manually or with an over-the-air update. By contrast a hardware fault often requires that the handset is replaced and goes into a "reverse logistics" system so that it can be repaired or replaced.The average cost of fixing a hardware fault is about £80, and across all smartphone models the industry return rate is between 5% and 10%. IT Pro Portalestimates the overall extra cost from returning devices at around $10 per handset, based on the number in use according to numbers from Google.However Tim Deluca-Smith, vice-president of marketing at WDS and author of the report, emphasised: "Our analysis does not find any inherent fault with the Android platform. Its openness has enabled the ecosystem to grow to a phenomenal size, at a phenomenal rate." But, he added: "It's this success that is proving challenging."The data comes from support calls made between July 2010 and August 2011, in which users in the US and Europe accounted for 70% of all calls. The calls come from both carrier and OEM support lines. WDS says that technical support calls typically make up 20% of all customer interactions.For carriers, the difficulty of working out which company in the supply chain is responsible for software flaws is also a substantial problem, compared to support for Apple's iPhone or RIM's BlackBerry systems.Android's business model means Google provides the mobile operating system, and handset makers may then add their own software on top, and carriers may add more software to a particular handset make and model. By comparison Apple and RIM have tighter control of the combination of hardware and software.Customers fretting about upgrades to Android version – and "simply wanting to know when an update would be made available" – form 6% of all platform/software calls for Android phones, WDS found. For Windows Phone the figure is 1.5%, for Apple's iPhone 1% and BlackBerry 0.5%."While this may suggest a degree of excitement among the Android community for updates, it may also point to the fragmentation of the Android updating process, because when it comes to Android devices, not all are created equally," WDS notes. "In many cases, devices aren't eligible for version updates and OEMs often limit availability."Many early Android devices missed Froyo (2.2) on the basis of hardware performance being too limited to provide full support. In other cases, where OEM and operator overlays are made to Android, OEMs and operators may delay the launch of version updates while personalisation takes place. Overlays add significant time to launch cycles, causing inbound requests from consumers requesting a version widely publicised as being launched and available by Google."When Google's Gingerbread OS was made widely available, it led to a fivefold spike in support calls. "There is much anecdotal evidence to suggest updates cause many end-users to experience unexpected device behaviour or loss of previously available functionality," WDS says."However, it must not be assumed that shortcomings are the direct result of Android tweaks. Instead, a number of faults have arisen because of the functionality added (or removed) by operators and OEMs in their overlays."Despite objections to the contrary [from Google], it is our belief that platform fragmentation has driven additional cost into many operators' businesses, either through support costs or product returns. WDS believes the difference in opinion comes from a disconnect between operator and retailer support channels and Google itself."The industry's own decentralisation and fragmentation means that data rarely flows seamlessly across all parties involved in the development, manufacture, distribution, retail and servicing of a product."When it came to hardware faults, WDS split them into a number of categories and found that Android phones had no preponderance of faults. By contrast Apple phones tended to have speaker faults if they had hardware problems, while for BlackBerry the button used to navigate around the screen was the most commonly broken.
Rockstar has released some teasing details about Grand Theft Auto V, following the launch of the first game trailer on Wednesday. The company confirmed that the title is in full production at the Rockstar North studio where all the home console versions have been designed since GTA III.In a short press release, Los Santos, GTA's fictional version of Los Angeles, was also confirmed as the game's setting. Mentioned throughout the series, the city forms one of the main sections of the 2004 release Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas. It features versions of Hollywood, Rodeo Drive, Downtown and crime-ridden areas such as Compton. Rockstar also stated that the surrounding hills, countryside and beaches would also figure.The press release goes on to describe GTA V as a, 'bold new direction in open-world freedom, storytelling, mission-based gameplay and online multiplayer'. The previous title, GTA IV, made ambitious use of multiplayer elements, including the implementation of a social networking service, The Rockstar Social club.As for the plot, Rockstar would only say that the game focuses on the pursuit of 'the almighty dollar' in a re-imagined, present day Southern California. Which sounds like the Grand Theft Auto experience we all know and love.The big question mark is over tone. While some gamers appreciated the more gritty, downbeat flavour of GTA IV, many longed for the glitz, glamour and comedy of GTA III: Vice City. The glinting sun, multiple beach shots and suggestions of seedy night life indicate that Grand Theft Auto might be swaying back in that direction.
It's Friday, and with Uncharted 3 and Battlefield 3 both out, you must be planning a mega weekend of gaming?
Samsung was confirmed as the largest player in the smartphone market, which grew by 42.6% in the three months to the end of September to reach 118.1m units - almost 25% bigger than the PC market worldwide,according to the research company IDC.But smartphone growth was slower than had been forecast, and noticeably below the two-thirds growth of the second quarter, which IDC ascribes to the delayed launch of Apple's newest iPhone: in previous years new models appeared during the third quarter and caused a spike in sales.Samsung led the pack with 23.6m units shipped (a 20.0% share), according to IDC, followed by Apple with 17.1m (14.5%) and Nokia with 16.8m (14.2%). The South Korean company grew from fourth position in the same period in 2010, when it shipped just 7.3m phones."Samsung's ascendancy to the leadership position is the direct result of its broad and deep product portfolio," said Ramon Llamas, senior research analyst with IDC's Mobile Phone Technology and Trends team. "Ever since the first Galaxy device launched last year, the company has aggressively expanded and refreshed its selection to include the latest innovations and most popular features."Nokia's fall from grace was dramatic, as it fell from shipping 26.5m smartphones - 32% of the 2010 third quarter shipments - to 16.8m, or 14.2%. The previous figure covered the final period before it ejected its previous chief executive and replaced him with Stephen Elop from Microsoft, who scrapped its Symbian operating system and decided to team up with his former employer.Research In Motion (RIM), known for its BlackBerry products, slipped to fifth place behind HTC with 11.8m phones shipped by IDC's measure; the introduction of newer models running its BB7 OS came late in the quarter and didn't do enough to stem a decline from a 15% share of devices sold to 10%, and a decline in units from 12.4m the year before.Even so, IDC said, RIM remained "a sizeable margin" ahead of the remaining vendors in the market, which includes LG - which earlier on Thursday said it wouldseek a multimillion pound rights issue to invest in its smartphone business- and Sony Ericsson, where the latter partnerhas been bought out by Sonyfor €1.1bn.IDC smartphone share, 3Q11Vendor3Q 11shipped units(million)3Q11 marketshare3Q10shipments3Q10 shareChange in salesSamsung23.620.00%7.38.60%223.30%Apple17.114.50%14.117.00%21.30%Nokia16.814.20%26.532%-36.60%HTC12.710.80%5.97.10%115.30%Research In Motion11.810.00%12.415.00%-4.80%Others36.130.60%16.620.00%117.50%Total118.110082.810042.60%source: IDC(Updated with link to IDC data page.)
Sir William Hawthorne, who has died aged 98, used his instinctive feeling for the mechanics of fluid flow to help solve a crucial problem that was holding up development of Sir Frank Whittle's jet engine in 1940. In great secrecy, and with Winston Churchill's personal support, prototype engines had been built at the old British-Thomson Houston works at&nbsp;Lutterworth, Leicestershire, but they could not be made to run smoothly. Only a few months before, Will had moved from the boiler manufacturer Babcock and Wilcox to the Engine Research Group at the Royal Aircraft Establishment. He was immediately seconded from there to help Whittle. The two worked together for several months until the engine's combustion chambers had been redesigned and development could continue.Will had a great ability to see immediately where the root of an engineering problem lay and to visualise its solution, often in elegantly simple mathematical terms. He applied these skills with great success to understanding the intricacies of three-dimensional flow in compressors and turbines, as well as in the combustion chambers of jet engines, and he became a world leader on turbomachinery design. Although his main work had been done before computer modelling became an effective tool, he kept abreast of computational developments, at one time teaching computing to engineering students, and he continued to advise turbine manufacturers until well into his 80s. He was a man of immense personal charm, with a twinkle in his eye.Will was born in Newcastle upon Tyne. In 1931 he won an exhibition from Westminster school to Trinity College, Cambridge, where he studied mathematics and engineering. After winning the university's Rex Moir and Ricardo prizes in his final examinations, he became a graduate apprentice at&nbsp;Babcock and Wilcox before going to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) as a Commonwealth fellow. There, he completed a doctorate on laminar and turbulent flames, work that was to prove valuable when helping Whittle a&nbsp;few years later.For many years, Will lived a dual existence. He was elected the first holder of the Hopkinson and ICI chair of&nbsp;applied thermodynamics at&nbsp;Cambridge University in 1951 when he was already Westinghouse professor of mechanical engineering at MIT. Although he resigned his Westinghouse chair, he continued to have an office at MIT and was regularly seen there for many years while simultaneously holding a full-time chair at Cambridge and, in 1968, becoming master of&nbsp;Churchill College.His election as master met with some concern among the fellowship, who knew of his time-consuming commitments elsewhere, including as head of the engineering department to which in 1968 he had also just been appointed. But their concern proved unfounded, partly because Will had the ability to work continuously for long hours, taking only a few hours sleep.Students who were supervised by&nbsp;Will reported that they never solved examination questions as they had expected, but instead took part in testing discussions on engineering issues. They had already experienced Will's searching approach to thermodynamics. This developed from an initiative started when he was at MIT with a new syllabus that was taught in&nbsp;smaller than usual classes. It brought a rigorous and disciplined approach to what had been a woolly subject in&nbsp;engineering courses. The intellectual rigour proved wonderful training for analysing problems. Developments of this approach are now taught universally. Will's enthusiasm for new teaching initiatives also led to what became the Cambridge University Advanced Course in Production Methods and Management, now run as an MPhil course.As the Suez crisis unfolded in the 1950s, there were not enough tankers to bring oil round the Horn of Africa. Instead, the possibility of floating oil in a flexible sausage skin emerged. For Will and several generations of&nbsp;his students, this became a major project. The first "Dracones" initially snaked uncontrollably from side to side and there were serious problems in obtaining waterproof fabric which was strong enough and could be sewn together to make a viable barge. The Suez emergency ended before Dracones could be used to transport oil long distances, but they were used for shorter distances and still have other applications for oil spill clean-up and the temporary storage of effluents at sea.Will was elected a fellow of the Royal Society in 1955, appointed CBE in 1959 and knighted in 1970. He was a&nbsp;founder fellow in 1976 of the Fellowship of&nbsp;Engineering (later to become the Royal Academy of Engineering). His hobbies included skiing, sailing, cookery and conjuring. He had been a member of the university's Pentacle magic club since his undergraduate days. His demonstration of sawing in half a young woman and then joining her together again was the most ambitious and spectacularly successful postprandial talk ever to be held in Churchill College's senior common room.Will's wife, Barbara, died in 1992. He is survived by a son and two daughters.• William Rede Hawthorne, engineer, born 22 May 1913; died 16 September 2011
One of the worst conference cliches currently floating around the tech industry is this: app developers are the new rock stars. The idea being that teenagers are stopping picking up guitars in favour of learning to code, with the ambition of being the next Mark Zuckerberg rather than the next Keith Richards / Graham Coxon / Bloke From The Vaccines (delete according to generation).Actually, what's more interesting is the idea of developers and musicians teaming up to work on apps that do more than simply promote an artist's new single, album, video and/or tour dates.The reason Bjork's Biophilia album-app has been so heavily covered here and elsewhere is that it's one of the first music apps born of a true creative collaboration between an artist and developers. Major label EMI is hoping to spur a few more partnerships of this kind, though, by working with US music technology companyThe Echo Nest.The two companies are launching a series of "sandboxes" for app developers, with apps in this case including iPhone, iPad, Android and web.The aim is to get developers pitching their app ideas for current EMI artists including Gorillaz, Pet Shop Boys, Tinie Tempah, Professor Green and Eliza Doolittle, and also catalogue acts like Culture Club, Simple Minds, Shirley Bassey and The Verve. Music from jazz label Blue Note Records is also included.Developers whose free and paid app concepts are approved by EMI and The Echo Nest get to make them. The label will help with any additional licensing – for example when it doesn't hold the publishing rights to particular songs or artists – while also publishing the apps and marketing them. The developers will retain the intellectual property of the apps themselves, and will get a pre-agreed share of the revenues.The initial sandboxes can befound here: some are artist-specific, one covers Blue Note, and two others are more general, with one offering a selection of more than 1,500 tracks from EMI's archives, and the other focusing on classical music pieces."This is far more than a wrapper for the audio – it's an opportunity to become part of the overall music experience," says The Echo Nest's chief executive Jim Lucchese. "Our business is premised on app developers being the architects of how we experience music going forward."Meanwhile, EMI's senior vice president for global digital marketing Bertrand Bodson says the partnership is an attempt to remove the main pain points encountered by app developers when they try to make music apps requiring licensing deals."The first one is no big secret: the ability to clear rights and find a way through the labels. Second, especially for smaller companies, is the lack of ability or time to dedicate to marketing and the legal framework around these apps."Many of these small developers – especially those that have come crashing up against these hurdles before – may need more convincing. They'll want to be sure that the revenue splits are worth their while, and they may also worry about pitching innovative app ideas, being turned down, and then seeing them used at a later date by EMI.The requirement to make their source code available to EMI – even though they retain ownership – could also be a sticking point.Even so, seeing a major label reach out to developers in this way is encouraging. Despite the existing barriers to making apps with licensed music, there are lots of talented companies and individuals champing at the bit to make music apps.Lucchese says that The Echo Nest is expecting up to 350 developers at theBoston Music Hack Dayevent on 5-6 November, for example. There, EMI will be joined by companies including Microsoft, Spotify, SoundCloud, Rdio, MTV and Sonos in opening up their APIs for developers to play with over a 24-hour period.Previous Music Hack Days have spawned hacks that later became commercial apps, including social music service AudioVroom – also supporting the Boston event.EMI hopes that its new sandboxes will give it an early glimpse of these kinds of apps in the future. Bodson also hopes that some creative apps for the initial crop of artists who have signed up for the sandboxes will spur others to follow suit.
One of my favourite tweets of recent weeks comes fromJon Lech Johansen(of DeCSS and latterly of DoubleTwist fame):"Next year HTML5 will replace native apps" is the new "Next year will be the year of Linux on the desktop".I bet Google's team wishes that native apps were passé, seeing as it had toclaw back a malfunctioning iOS app from the marketon Wednesday. If if weren't for the fact that its customers insist on having a native app – if only they were happy to use a mobile web browser – then no one at Mountain View would be worried about their jobs. But they are.AnachronisticJon's comment is set up like a joke, and like all good humour it works because there's truth in it that resonates. As software engineers, we've learnt that if we put an application on a website we can abstract away the client device and have a single unit of operations that we can directly control.We don't have to worry about wrinkles in individual client configurations derailing the process. (Google – we could be writing about your iOS app!) We can change production apps under the covers during business hours without having to "fess up" to the mistake. (Google – we couldstillbe writing about your iOS app!) We don't need to care whether it's Android, iOS, Windows Phone, or even BlackBerry. We write one application and deliver it over a generally well-supported open standard.So native apps – providing they are non-game apps like Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, etc – are anachronistic. They are more client/server than web. We took client/server out to the paddock and calmly shot it in the head many moons ago, didn't we, so logic suggests we'll repeat that with native apps on smartphones. So yes, Jon's comment is an excellent example of geek humour, but deep down we all want it to happen.Impedance mismatchSo there's a clear impedance mismatch here. Intuitively we know that the experience of using a native mobile app is more comfortable and natural than using the web-based equivalent, even if we bring all of the snazzy new HTML5 technologies to bear. Google knows this, which is why its teams try to (and in fairness, typically do) put native apps onto phones that key into their back-end services. A web-only play does not get the buy-in from customers that they need.But as software engineers we also know that we operate in a cycle, part of which is to vacillate between running our software logic on "remote lump of expensive iron" and "inexpensive local device".We used to run apps on mainframes, then we moved them to PCs. Then we moved some of the PC logic to the server (client/server). Then we moved composition of the user interface over to the server (web-based intranet/extranet apps). Then the iPhone comes along, and we start building client/server apps again. Interesting point though: we didn't have to.As an industry we hassled and hassled Apple to let us build native apps for iPhones. It wasn't the way Steve Jobs, for one, wanted to play it at all (although there were plenty of others inside Apple – such as Scott Forstall, head of iOS, who did).But I digress.  We know why we dismantled client/server and stopped working that way. Logic suggests a desire to do the same with native apps on phones. Plus the problem is worse today compared to the late 1990s.Back in the day, we just had Windows to target. Now we have a moving target. If you showed me a company last month targeting consumers that had an Android-only offering I'd have looked at you strangely for not having iOS coverage. In the past three days along that's changed. With aquarter of the UK population owning an Android phone,nottargeting iOS feels more appropriate.So we abstract. That's what we as engineers do when we want to raise ourselves up above the platform. We get away from the bare understanding of the target, wrap it with layers that we can swap in and out and build our beautiful thing atop. And now we find there's a market for this sort of abstraction in the guise of things likePhoneGap,Xamarinand the newappMobi.But, as Steve Jobs said in hisfamous public scrap with Adobe over Flash support on iOS: "We know from painful experience that letting a third party layer of software come between the platform and the developer ultimately results in sub-standard apps and hinders the enhancement and progress of the platform."Another way of saying that is that abstraction and compromise are joined at the hip. It turns out that abstraction holds your customers at arms' length when you should be giving them a cuddle.Are we going back?So are we going to retread the same path we did with client/server - i.e. put down native apps and move everything back to HTML5?There's one important difference now compared to the late 1990s: we, as technicians, no longer lead this debate. A business case to junk a client/server app and replace it with an intranet app was always winnable because we had our audience's ear, and we could build a coherent and rational argument. Organisations typically behave far more rationally than unassociated individuals.We are now no longer masters of this domain. We have a commoditised market where the consumer is in charge. If you look to connect with your customer a user via a mobile web app (a "handshake") and your competitor offers them a "cuddle" with a better native app experience, you will lose, regardless of the eloquence of your argument or the sophistication of your engineering. You no longer have a seat on the board.So, next year might be the year of HTML5 replacing native apps. Or it might not. Suffice it to say that if it does happen, it would have nothing to do with we technicians. We no longer get to be the tail that wags the dog.•Matthew Baxter-Reynolds is an independent software development consultant, trainer and author based in the UK.  His favourite way to communicate with like-minded technical people is Twitter:@mbrit.
Shares in LG Electronics plunged 14% on Thursday as the company announced a 1.06tn won (£590m) rights issue which will be used mainly to fund a revival of its loss-making smartphone business.The South Korean company's shares have already fallen by more than 40% this year, but the decline as it announced the demand from existing shareholders was its biggest daily fall in more than three years, and knocked around £625m, or $1bn, off its market capitalisation.LG's handset business has reported nearly 1tn won in losses over the past six consecutive quarters, as it has failed to introduce compelling models to challenge the likes of Apple's iPhone and Samsung's Galaxy line, both of which have significant shares of the smartphone market.LG – which has made smartphones using both Google's Android and Microsoft's Windows Phone operating systems, but is now focussing more strongly on Google's platform – saw its smartphone market share fall in the July-September quarter, according to recent figures.It managed to pass Sony Ericsson as the sixth biggest smartphone maker in the second quarter of the year, but even so only sold 5.4m units then, compared to Apple and Samsung which collectively sold around 35m in that period. However, LG is still the world's third biggest maker of branded Android smartphones, behind Samsung and HTC.Losses from the handset division more than doubled to 140bn won (£83m) from the previous quarter, as its flagship line of Optimus products, powered by Android software, struggled to lure away consumers from competitors.The company is being squeezed as customers migrate to higher-end smartphones from Apple or Samsung, or to cheap ones from Chinese companies such as ZTE. That is causing a "dumbbell-shaped" smartphone market in terms of value for manufacturers, says Stuart Jeffreys, analyst at Nomura Securities, who thinks that HTC could be vulnerable in the longer term as well.Horace Dediu, of the analysis company Asymco,observed in Junethat "the strange fact [is] that as far as I've been able to observe, any company in the mobile phone market that ended up losing money has never recovered its standing in terms of share or profit".He cited 13 instances from the past decade, all preceding both LG and Nokia's quarterly losses. He noted that Motorola and Sony Ericsson have also fallen into loss over the past five years."This cursory survey shows that it's difficult to be optimistic once a company reaches a point of crisis. It's a curious outcome given that the market is so vast and growth is so robust," Dediu wrote. "But the fact is that because of the technology cycle time, rapid business model evolution and fairly low barriers to entry, there is great rivalry between competitors."Profitability is the canary in the coal mine. It causes a brand to be tarnished in the eyes of distributors who, because of sales cycle times, are extremely sensitive to obsolete inventory. A loss maker is seen as a maker of damaged goods. It then turns off the tap of incentives, promotions and hence visibility in the eyes of consumers. It's a vicious cycle from which few (if any) can recover. Past greatness offers no succour."LG stock is one of the worst performers among global handset makers, along with BlackBerry-maker Research in Motion and Nokia, although RIM has remained profitable through its life. It is also struggling to generate strong returns from its home appliances and TV businesses due to weak demand and soaring input costs.LG said in a statement: "The rights offering is aimed at securing ample resources required to improve competitiveness of our core businesses. We'll continue to invest in our core businesses, including smartphones, to regain our initiative."Analysts thought that it had taken a better approach than issuing bonds or borrowing. "A share issue might be a better option from LG's point of view, since borrowing and issuing debt may turn out to be more costly," said Oh Dong-ge, a senior fund manager at Daishin Asset Management, which owns LG shares."LG is taking certain risks and it is betting on an already struggling smartphone business just when the operational environment is not friendly either. It is hard to say who might be interested in supporting this potential rights offer scheme, but my guess is it would be weak."Koo Bon-joon, the younger brother of the LG Group chairman and a member of its founding family, took over as the CEO of LG Electronics a year ago to rescue the troubled mobile business.The world's No.2 TV maker and third-biggest handset vendor said that it would place new shares worth 1.06tn won to existing shareholders at 55,900 won each, representing a 9.3% discount against the closing price in the South Korean stock market on Thursday.But the company's credit rating has been cut this week by the agencies Fitch and Moody's to negative: Fitch said LG's operational competitiveness was unlikely to recover significantly in the short term. Standard &amp; Poors also downgraded LG's long-term corporate credit rating, just as the company is struggling with deteriorating cash flow.Shares in parent LG Corp fell 10% on concerns that LG Electronics may place a big chunk of the potential new share issue with the holding company.LG Corp owns 35% of the electronics unit.Shares in the lossmaking flat-screen maker LG Display fell 6.3%. "LG Display, which has been posting losses, needs fresh facility investments and LG Electronics, as the top shareholder, may need to pitch in," said John Park, an analyst at Daishin Securities.LG Electronics controls around 38% of LG Display, the world's No.2 flat panel maker, which posted a record quarterly loss last month.LG Display was also at the centre of a rights offer rumour, although a company executive denied last month in a meeting with investors.
I want to buy – never mind the cost – a portable radio able to receive BBC Radio 1, 2, 3, and 4. I live in north-west Italy.Augusto OdellAs you'll appreciate, the BBC only broadcasts its national UK radio stations inside the UK. You will not be able to receive these stations when they are broadcast on AM, FM or DAB, because you won't be able to pick up a viable signal.However, there are other ways to listen to radio stations, such as via satellite or cable, or over the internet. Sometimes you can even find a local rebroadcaster. For example, if you lived in Rome, you could apparently get the BBC World Service's satellite feed rebroadcast on FM byRadio Citta Futura. In sum, the stations you can receive depends a lot on where you are, and the equipment you have available.The BBC broadcasts its international station, BBC World Service, via Eutelsat's Hot Bird satellite at 13° East, but not its national UK stations. These are broadcast "free to air" (ie, not encrypted) via an Astra 2D satellite at 28.2° East. This signal is focused as tightly as possible on the British Isles, but you can pick it up outside this area if you use a suitably large roof-mounted dish.In the Astra 2D forum,someone from Vicenzasays he can get "full reception 24/7 of all BBC channels including BBC1-4, BBC1 HD, CBBC and Cbeebees" using a using a 125cm offset dish (120 x 130cm). A 90cm dish was insufficient. However, if you only want radio rather than TV signals, I would expect a 90cm dish to do the job.If you decide to take this route, you should consult an expert local satellite installer. Someone who caters to British families living in the north of Italy should know what's required, and will already have set up several similar systems.Once you have the signal, you could use ahome FM transmitterto rebroadcast it around the house. This will enable you to listen to BBC stations using your portable radio. People often use these small short-range FM transmitters these to "broadcast" playlists from their MP3 players, or perhaps their CD players. (Crazily enough, they're even used to convert DAB to FM inside cars, which rarely have DAB radios.) Audio quality can be very variable.I suspect internet radio is your best option, as long as you have reasonably fast broadband and no limit on the amount of data that you can download.There are lots ofinternet and Wi-Fi radiosavailable from companies such as Logitech, Pure, Revo and Roberts. I reviewed theLogitech Squeezebox radiohere two years ago.When you switch one of these portables on, it will find local Wi-Fi networks and invite you to connect to your home network, just like any other device. Once connected, it will be able to play thousands of internet radio stations, including the BBC's 10 or so national stations and about 40 local stations.Wi-Fi radios that include a media player can also play audio files that are stored on your PC. Of course, a Wi-Fi radio can operate without a PC – or without the PC turned on – though I don't expect many people have broadband internet and Wi-Fi networks unless they have a PC as well.Spend a bit of time setting up your Wi-Fi radio by finding the stations that you want and assigning these to the pre-set buttons. The intermediary supplier (such as Logitech or Pure) may bundle the BBC stations in one section, but it's still tedious if you have to find stations from scratch every time.Many internet stations now provide good audio quality: major stations should be much better than the out-of-date DAB used in the UK, and possibly better than DAB+ in Italy. According to the list of UK stations atListenLive.eu, radios 1, 2 and 4 are available at 128kbps in both AAC and WMA (Windows Media Audio) formats, with Radio 3 at 192kbps WMA and 320kbps AAC. (AAC is better.) Listening to a 128kbps station will consume about 55MB per hour, so you could easily use 2GB per week.You can also listen to internet radio stations using a PC or laptop instead of a portable radio. It's certainly worth exploring the field with a PC before you start buying stuff. You can listen to the main BBC radio stations atbbc.co.uk/radio/, or via theBBC iPlayer's radio page. This also provides "listen again" options.Another alternative is theUK Radioplayer, which offers both BBC and commercial stations. Radioplayer is "a not-for-profit company founded by the BBC, Global Radio, Guardian Media Group, Absolute Radio and RadioCentre to serve radio and its audiences by making listening easy".Some online media services use geolocation, based on your internet address, to restrict offerings in various countries, so not everything will work where you are. Also, the quality of online streams can vary. The BBC seems to take a fairly relaxed attitude to radio, but some things – such as live sports broadcasts – may be blocked because of rights issues.The BBC is currently working to make the iPlayer (including TV and catch-up facilities) available in other countries, including Italy. The European version of the iPlayer costs €6.99 per month, which is less than the UK licence fee. However, it's an Apple iPad app, so you'd be much better off with a Wi-Fi radio.
A selection of 13 apps for you today:KinectimalsKinectimals is a big deal for Microsoft: a Windows Phone game designed to interact with the Kinectimals on Kinect game for Xbox 360. On phones it's a cute virtual pet game, not a million miles away from the original Nintendogs – albeit with different animals. The appeal for Xbox owners is the ability to unlock five new cubs to transfer to the console version.Windows PhonePoker PalsGames publisher Chillingo's new iOS effort is Poker Pals, which puts players head to head with their Game Center friends and email/contacts people. The gameplay isn't quite traditional poker either: combos are a new feature for example.iPhone / iPadLivestand from YahooYahoo has chosen to not make its new Livestand magazine app available outside the US, which is a shame for Brits wondering whether it's a potential Flipboard-beater. The iPad app pulls in news, videos and photos based on topics chosen by the user.iPadFlow Powered by AmazonAnother new app that's disappointingly not available in the UK at launch. Amazon's new shopping app for iPhone wants to get people pointing their camera at CDs, DVDs, books and games, before seeing online prices and reviews overlaid, using augmented reality tech.iPhoneBBM MusicRIM's BlackBerry BBM Music service has been in private beta for a couple of months, but it has now launched officially in the US, Canada and Australia – sadly not in the UK yet. The service gets people to sign in with their BBM account, and gives them 50 songs to download, plus access to all the songs in their BBM friends' catalogues.BlackBerryFortune The Legacy of Steve JobsPloughed through the Steve Jobs biography already? Fortune magazine has released its own iPad book-app based on the last three decades of Jobs' life. "A singular journalistic collection, which will leave you with a comprehensive picture of a man who changed the world..."iPadBingMicrosoft's Bing search app has been available on iPhone for a while, as well as other platforms, but it's now available in the UK. It promises web searches, walking and driving directions, weather, shops and local businesses, and a scanning feature for Microsoft Tags and QR codes.iPhoneCartoon Wars: Gunner+Gamevil's Cartoon Wars: Gunner+ is a clever side-scrolling action game with RPG elements added in for depth. The fact that you play a stick-man gives it added appeal.AndroidSpreaker RadioSpreaker is an iPhone app for creating live audio broadcasts then sharing them on Facebook and Twitter. It's being pitched as a good platform for podcasters and citizen journalists.iPhoneGRave Defense HDMarmalade's latest slick game for the BlackBerry PlayBook tablet is GRave Defense HD, a new spin on the tower defence genre including appearances from Dracula and Frankenstein.BlackBerry PlayBookGrant My WishFed up with disappointing presents? Grant My Wish is an app that wants to help, compiling gift lists for birthdays, Christmas and other occasions. It also lets people split costs with friends, message one another, and find local deals and discounts.iPhoneCraftedMinecraft has only made it to Android so far on mobile, but Crafted is a cheeky reimagining of the popular game in 2D. It is so close in places, though, that it may well be gone from the App Store before the week is out.iPhoneRoland Kickinger's Sexy NutritionWe're not sure about the app, but the name alone demanded inclusion...iPhone
Clearly someone at Disney cast a long, envious look at the success of the Lego series and decided: "We'll have some of that." The result is Disney Universe and, while it won't occupy serious gamers for long, it's surprisingly good fun for everyone else.Old-school Disney heroes take a back seat here as Universe takes you on a whistle-stop tour of more recent hit movies. The action kicks off with their biggest franchise, Pirates of the Caribbean, but the swordplay soon turns futuristic (Wall-E), arcade adventury (The Lion King and Aladdin) and downright bizarre (Monsters Inc and Alice in Wonderland). There are extra costumes from other movies to unlock if you score well in the main levels – although replayability is probably not this game's strongest suit.Stripped back and stylised in detail, your big-headed avatars (looking like a mash-up of Super Hero Squad and Little Big Planet) are charmingly animated, with a diverse mix of 3D levels that take a few goes to grow accustomed to but can be explored at your own pace.The sheer variety of graphical styles will certainly keep younger players entertained. Each of the six themed worlds is split into three shorter levels, usually with a single objective to complete – such as building a bridge, finding a key or killing a set number of NPCs to escape to the next level.These range from platform-based obstacle courses to more open plan free-for-alls, accompanied mainly by the constant squeals, grunts and cheers of your protagonists.But it's the frantic competitive action that will appeal most. As a single player or co-op game, it's mainly about hitting anything that moves with a few fairly basic puzzles thrown in, many of which are signposted with arrows unless you turn them off.Play with the full four-player contingent, however, and it turns into a much more tactical, button-mashing grab for the limited icons, special weapons and rewards available – and this is certainly the most enjoyable way to play it.The real fun is to be had in using the Nunchuck to lock on to others, either spinning friends on their way or grabbing opponents to frustrate their moves or hurl them into danger's path.Disney Universe is certainly Disney's best video game in a long time – especially for the youngsters, who will enjoy the simple, trial-and-error gameplay and diverse styles, looks and challenges. Definitely one to grab for an early Christmas stocking filler, if you don't mind the racket that will break out when you boot it up.• Game reviewed on Wii
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMy offer to Google Reader &gt;&gt; fox @ fury"I believe this has happened because Google Reader was held to a mandate of refreshing Google products under a common style guide, but from what I've been told it had no full-time user experience resource to apply that guide in a way that made sense for the nuances and needs of that particular product ... As the former lead designer for Google Reader, I offer my services to Google, rejoining for a three month contract in order to restore and enhance the utility of Google Reader, while keeping it in line with Google's new visual standards requirements."Apple Confirms iOS 5 Bugs Causing Battery Issues for Some iPhones &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"A small number of customers have reported lower than expected battery life on iOS 5 devices," Apple said in a statement to AllThingsD. "We have found a few bugs that are affecting battery life and we will release a software update to address those in a few weeks."Google Graveyard spooks customers &gt;&gt; Microsoft TechNet blog"The wind is blowing, and I think I hear a howl. "After all, Google customers are not finding tools they have been using over the years. The tools are dead and buried." Microsoft takes aim at Google. It's a well-stacked argument, which hinges on the question of whether Google knows what business customers need in providers' software (stability, predictability) and what one tends to get (variable lifespans, abrupt changes).Apple fixes iPad 2 Smart Cover passcode security flaw with iOS 5.0.1 &gt;&gt; 9to5Mac"Now, with the release of iOS 5.0.1 beta, we've discovered that one of the new security fixes is a fix for this Smart Cover bug. It appears that Apple has fixed the issue by not allowing the iPad 2 to go to sleep by way of the Smart Cover closing while on the power off menu. iOS 5.0.1 should make its way onto everyone's iOS 5 devices in a few weeks." So it goes.Kinect turned into a quadrocopter radar (video) &gt;&gt; EngadgetFrom December 2010, linked by @timacheson from the discussion about the potential for the Kinect in business. It's possible that the potential of this device to spy on Al-Qu'aeda is limited, but it shows that it doesn't have to be attached only to an Xbox."Siri, how much data do you gobble up in a month?" Ars investigates &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaDetailed look at Siri and the thorny issue of data caps. "If you own an iPhone 4S and perform all 11 of these same queries every single day for a month over your carrier's 3G connection, you can expect to use roughly 20MB or so in a 30-day month. But it's unlikely that that you'll be asking those same questions, or with the same frequency."Can Ubuntu Linux win on smartphones and tablets? &gt;&gt; Steven J Vaughan"Mark Shuttleworth is as close as Linux has ever had to Steve Jobs. He has vision, he's articulate, and he can move an audience. But, can he move a market that's in love with Android phones and Apple iPad tablets to give Ubuntu a chance? I think he has a shot." So that's one guaranteed sale, and one maybe. More relevant is Shuttleworth's later point: "Make no mistake-just as the world is changing for manufacturers so is it changing for Linux distributions. Today, 70% of people in Egypt access the internet solely via the phone. Even in the US that figure is a startling 25%." The mass-market game now though is either Symbian, or Android. As a smartphone OS, Linux (which Android isn't) peaked some time in 2006.CHAMPION JOCKEY: G1 JOCKEY &amp; GALLOP RACER - TUTORIAL (WITH XBOX KINECT) &gt;&gt; YouTubeYou are NOT allowed to laugh when you watch this. NO. DO NOT LAUGH. (Thanks @HanDoJin for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
