Maps changed for ever when Google linked street maps to aerial photographs and made them freely available online. But now that we are used to swooping over villages and towns, these maps have lost their novelty and we know their limitations. Many of Google's UK images outside London are not detailed enough to pick out individual streets and its maps don't name some streets, nor are they based on our familiar, much loved Ordnance Survey sheets.Other mappers, such as Multimap, have hit back with improved Google-style maps-and-images. And this week the map wars hot up with the launch of a souped-up version of 192.com/maps. It claims more detailed images of the whole of the UK, smoother navigation and maps based on Ordnance Survey data.Although, like Google, it omits to mark Ely cathedral on its street maps, 192.com looks the best in my virtual road test of random locations. Google and Multimap's images of Ashburton in Devon are blurry; it's not possible to zoom in on their aerial shots of Windermere, in Cumbria. On 192.com I can see my dad's greenhouse in Ashburton and shrubs in my grandpa's old garden in Windermere.Online maps are fast becoming portals for all kinds of information. Multimap will now identify cash points, petrol stations and wi-fi hotspots for you. Later this year, 192.com will offer links to business websites on its maps (so you could go virtual shopping along the Kings Road), link amateur photographs from Flickr to places (so you could see tourist snaps of a great beach) and even locate news stories on maps (so you can discover if there has been a grisly murder near your new home).Italy, however, is the real map master. Thanks to vans with 360-degree cameras that have taken photos every five metres in cities such as Rome, you can drop down to street level on a free online service, look around, and drive - virtually - along the highway. UK mappers promise something as good here within three years.www.multimap.com;www.192.com/maps;maps.google.co.uk;www.visual.paginegialle.it
A hot story on the web today is basically just a picture of a small screw with an invoice that says SCREW, SPECIAL and a price of 61.31 euros plus VAT.Sorry, it's not for a PlayStation 3, and it's not Sony's price, which is $38.40 if you buy direct in the US. (Still not a cheap screw.) Either way, it's resulted in lots of quippery onDigg, and an amusing response from the dugg site, quartertothree.com. It dealt with the traffic by picking up the referrer field and redirecting straight back to Digg.The major beneficiary of the whole thing may be theScrew Asylumsite, to which several stories linked. It's a home for deformed screws. Someone commented that: "This might actually be the most boring weblog on the entire internet." Which just goes to show har far standards have fallen (or risen) since the great days ofPaul's Useless Pages(sadly dead, and not even inThe Wayback Machine).
PIAGGIO MP-3 SCOOTER&pound;4,011MILES PER GALLON: 70SEATS: 2GOOD FOR: SPILLSBAD FOR: THRILLSSixty years after Piaggio first introduced its legendary Vespa - the iconic two-wheeler which managed the impossible by making city commuting chic - the Italian bike maker is again attempting the impossible. This time it's offering a trendy three-wheeled scooter. And, as if that isn't odd enough, it features the stand-out weirdness of having two of its wheels at the front. Yet everyone knows, from the grotesque power trikes of the hair-and-leather brigade to the pitiful Reliant Robin, that three-wheelers, de facto, are never trendy.So why has Piaggio decided to join the triple horror bill with its MP-3? (Yes, MP-3. Even the name shows how out of step it is. All week I had remarks along the lines of: 'That's a big iPod! Where are your headphones mate?')You certainly can't argue that the MP-3 is not a head-turner. Each time I stopped at a light, I'd be asked questions by curious bikers and van drivers. Motorcyclists would do comical double-takes as they shot past; children would point from their pushchairs as they were wheeled across zebra crossings by their giggling mothers. Yes, the MP-3 garners backward glances quicker than Marilyn Manson would at a sunbed centre, but the looks were almost always followed by a smile of bafflement.It's easy to see why. From the front, the MP-3 looks like a farmer's quad bike, from the rear it looks like a traditional scooter. The two parts cut-and-shunted to produce a misfit. It's the okapi of the road.So, if it ain't cool, why has Piaggio built it. In a word: safety. The double front wheels offer vastly improved stability, more effective braking (it requires up to 24 per cent less stopping distance) and greater road adhesion, particularly when wet. The revolutionary design has created twin wheels with completely independent suspension and a tilt mechanism which means that the bike copes brilliantly with rough roads, pot holes, kerbs and treacherous corners.The bike's suspension can also be locked by pulling up a small lever, so that when stationary, the scooter will stand unaided. You don't need to put your feet down. Engage the lock at traffic lights and you look very clever sitting with your feet up, as if you have perfect balance. The lock also means there's no need for a central stand when you park up.The MP-3 comes with a host of scooter comforts: large seats, a boot big enough to take a small set of golf clubs (apparently) and certainly for a ration run to Sainsbury's and a spare helmet. The front shield provides weather protection for the less hardy rider, and the seat can be easily adapted for riders of any size, from the wasp-waisted to the hippo-bottomed.It goes without saying that scooters are economical, a week's commuting cost me just over a fiver; they're free to park, and in London Ken can't get you with his congestion charge. Most motorised trikes are classed as cars and can be ridden with a driver's licence, but you will need to complete a one-day Compulsory Basic Training course before you get on this three-wheeler.In short, it's sensible but hardly sexy. Which is appropriate really, because, as a middle-aged family man, it's what I've come to accept as my place in life.martin.love@observer.co.uk
Don Dodge, who works for the Microsoft Emerging Business Team, has put a few numbers onthe value of search. Working from Google's published financial results and market cap, he reckons that "each 1% of search market share is worth over $100M in revenues" and "the stock market values 1% market share at over $1 billion".A single search in the US is worth about 12 cents, on average.In a comment to Don's post, usability guru Jakob Nielsen, points out:The value per page view on a content site tends to be about 0.1 cents. Thus, pointing people to content is more than 100 times as profitable as actually writing that content. (This is why I called search engines leeches on the Web, athttp://www.useit.com/alertbox/search_engines.html)In other words, content providers (including The Guardian) get 1c for creating content but Google gets 99c for indexing it. And, of course, if you don't let Google index it, you probably don't get the 1c ;-)
Doctor and Guardian columnist Ben Goldacre has published this Saturday's Bad Science column --Wi-Fi Wants To Kill Your Children-- on his Web site, along with a video clip and lots of links to sites rubbishing Monday's Panorama programme about Wi-Fi. He concludes:Of course you should be vigilant about health risks. I don't question that there may be some issues worth sober investigation around Wi-Fi safety. But this documentary was the lowest, most misleading scaremongering I have seen in a very long time.
Martha Lane Fox, the founder of Lastminute.com, who joined the board of Marks &amp; Spencer last week, will speak at The Observer Amnesty debate on internet censorship next week. The Observer has 50 tickets to give away.Lane Fox, 34, co-founded the travel website in 1998, becoming one of the most recognisable faces of the internet boom. She is now on the board of Channel 4 and a trustee of Reprieve, a charity that campaigns against the death penalty.Tomorrow is the first anniversary of Irrepressible.info, the joint campaign by Amnesty and The Observer calling for freedom of speech online. On the evening of 6 June, the campaign will hold an event, 'Some People Think the Internet is a Bad Thing: The Struggle for Freedom of Expression in Cyberspace', at Amnesty UK's centre in Shoreditch, east London. The event will also feature jailed US blogger Josh Wolf and Jimmy Wales, the creator of Wikipedia.To apply for tickets, emailnews@observer.co.ukbefore 9am on Tuesday May 29, 2007, with the word 'tickets' in the subject field. The winners will be selected at random. A webcast of the event will be online atwww.amnesty.org.uk/webcast.
The red ring of deathThat the disaster-prone Xbox 360 hardware doesn't have a reputation for continual self-destruction says more about Microsoft's masterful handling of what, for most, would have been a PR catastrophe than it does for the machine's reliability. With all too frequent stories about consoles that stop working, displaying the now-infamous "red ring of death" in the normally green lights on the front, it's been something of a quiet mini-epidemic.Step forward Xbox 360 owner PacoDG, who recently posted a video on the web demonstrating a homespun solution that he says obviates the need to send it back to Microsoft for repair. According to his short film, you place your broken console, switched on, under a heap of towels and leave it there for a while. Through some unfathomable, towel-based necromancy, Paco alleges your Xbox will miraculously be cured.
Diner DashNintendo DS, PSPDiner Dash makes you the sole member of the waiting staff in a sequence of progressively larger and busier restaurants. Manage the queue, seat diners, take orders, pass them to the kitchen, supply interim snacks, bring the food to the right table, pour the drinks, offer dessert, bring the bill, clear the table and drop off the dirty crockery at the kitchen. It starts easy and gets steadily more taxing with the addition of bigger tables, different sized parties, diners who eat very slowly even when you really need their table back and the tendency of customers to walk out if you take too long over any of the above. Reminiscent of the gameplay made famous by Nintendo's 1980s Game &amp; Watch series, it requires management of increasingly hard to contain chaos and demands enormous concentration, which may sound like hard work, but is actually a pleasingly frenetic way to waste sizable portions of the tiny amount of time that constitutes human existence.&#183;Eidos, &pound;30OnslaughtFree onlineWeb games are getting more prolific by the month, acting as an outlet for the vast reservoir of talent untapped by an increasingly mainstream and commercially focused games industry. They're also often free and can display levels of invention that would be way too scary for publishers used to thinking more about the need to articulate everything about a game in a 30-second TV advert than about pushing back any boundaries. Onslaught, while much, much less wacky in style than many, does manage to pull off the elusive magic of being a genuinely addictive game. Your job is to buy and position defences, which must then overcome successive waves of increasingly powerful attackers. In essence, the more you kill, the more money you earn to upgrade security, leading to an endless test of strategies and weapons combinations. A wonderful mixture of Advance Wars and Dungeon Keeper, this should keep you plugging away until far beyond the point at which you feel like your brain is about to explode.&#183;tinyurl.com/38dond
Photo: GizmodoThe "computing as a utility" idea has been going around for several decades, with the result that a bunch of companies have lost their shirts, while the network computer's promoters -- such asOracle boss, Larry Ellison-- have ended up looking stupid.Update:The basic idea of "computing as a utility" is that users should be able to plug in a box and have it work without them having to learn anything or become their own IT managers. Like the phone, television set-top box and electricity and water supplies, computing facilities just be should be "on tap". Proponents argue that many users don't need the versatility and allied complexity of a personal computer: they just want to do a few simple things such as browse the web and write emails, and such functions can be provided on a utility basis....But of course, you can't keep a good idea down, and market rejection can always be considered temporary. One day, perhaps somebody will get the combination of price, product and service right, sales will take off, and thousands of ignoranti will ask why no one tried it before.The next effort isZonbu's Zonbox. This looks like a $99 Linux PC -- but it's actually $249 unless you sign up for two years of service at $12.95 per month, and the price doesn't include things like a keyboard, mouse and monitor. Also, this is for a system with a slow 1.2GHz VIA chip, 512MB of memory and, as far as I can see, no hard drive. A CD burner/DVD reader costs $50 extra. In other words, the headline price looks very cheap but it isn't really.In this case, the service element is provided by synchronisation with Amazon's S3 service, which can update your Zonbox and also backs up your data. (More data means higher charges.)Zonbox uses Gentoo Linux and you can't install your own software, but why would you want to? The whole idea is to have an appliance that you don't have to maintain, it should just work -- like, for example, a set-top box.Gizmodohas had an exclusive look at the device, and enthusiastically describes it as "a $99 Linux PC that is amazingly as simple to use as a Mac". (Brian Lam is a Mac owner.) "I love it."So, is the Zonbox going to take off? Will it go the same way as Acorn's network computer, Larry Ellison's various efforts, the iOpener, the Microsoft/Sony/Philips WebTV and other utility computing products -- ie crash and burn?Or is Zonbox just a precursor for the One True Googlebox, whereby Google's network computer takes over the market, sucks out your entire personality (if applicable) and makes it universally searchable. You decide....
For the past week's blog posts on a single page, clickhere.Highlights include:Apple hit with class action suit over MacBook screen displaysThe dangers of Wi-Fi radiation (updated)British Nobel Prize winner launches excoriating attack on UK science educationDAB+ is on the wayDell US launches Ubuntu systems todayFacebook opens up, draws adulation
50sCitro&euml;n 2CVFabled transporter of the French farmer and his market-bound chickens, the 2CV, or "tin snail", could not be more openly Gallic if it wore a string of onions and a Breton jumper. By the 1980s, its eccentricity saw it established as the leading mobile billboard for Nuclear Power: No Thanks stickers. In the 50s, though, it still spoke of production under wartime conditions and looked like an act of resistance. Here, courtesy of the roll-off roof, was open-top motoring for next to no money - and in a car which was, frankly, next to no car.The engine, with its conversation-eclipsing top note, was so spare and simple it looked like a sketch for an engine. Dashboard? Not really: a battery meter and a winder for the windscreen wipers. Petrol gauge? Check the dipstick in the tank, though, in the absence of unleaded fuel, the car could probably be made to squeeze a few kilometres out of a glass of absinthe and a packet of Gitanes. Climb into the thinly sprung bench seats, and the frame practically spoke your weight, tipping and creaking like a guesthouse bed. Top speed: 45mph with a following wind.60sMiniMythology and showbusiness bulk unhelpfully large around the eager and innocent Mini, the received notion of the car as a deathless style icon tending to obscure the fact that the majority of owners bought one not because they had seen Mary Quant do the same, but because it seemed a highly practical thing to do at the time.The subsequent joke about how many elephants you could get in a Mini was, if anything, founded on genuine scientific curiosity, arising from people's unembarrassed tendency to use these ultra-snug runabouts as full-blown transporters for family outings. Few are the children of the 60s who don't even now suffer periodic pins-and-needle flashbacks as a result of five-hour round trips with their faces squashed against a Mini's side window and their legs trapped under a hamper and two brothers.70sAustin AllegroBuilt against a background of wild social discontent and enforced candle-light, the hapless Austin Allegro has come to stand as the apotheosis of British motoring in a time of recession. Nothing says three-day-week quite like an Allegro. Nothing says power cut quite like one, either. The car was principally renowned for its space-age, square, chrome door handles, for seats clad in the kind of velour that feels like foam stuffing, and for replacing the perfectly respectable Austin 1100.Were any two Allegros alike? In today's factories, new-fangled ideas such as robotics and quality control breed a clone-like consistency in car production. In the hands-on 70s, there was still room for cars to vary wildly, depending on the political mood of the workforce when the chassis passed along the belt.80sVW Golf GTiThe 80s didn't only give us Duran Duran: they also yielded the hot hatch, in which a sensible hatchback for Sloane Rangers in candy-striped shirts was reworked as a Tarmac-monstering rally car with pumped-up engine and go-faster body stylings. The result was perfectly attuned to the triumphalism of wad-waving City boys (also in candy-striped shirts) and the wilder kind of estate agent, while also being a boon to anyone who enjoyed seeing their knuckles whiten going into corners. As such, the GTi could be said to have helped complete driving's long-term transition from a convivial, neighbourly activity into something that was merely borderline sociable. The GTi also played its part in the launch of such unhelpful provincial town sports as joy-riding and ram-raiding. Yet, even now, those 80s GTis can't help but be the object of fond, nostalgic reminiscence, in the manner of Nik Kershaw's snood. Designed using a ruler, they seem to have marked the last known use of straight lines in modern commercial car design. Very soon afterwards, manufacturers (including VW with subsequent Golfs) began dedicating themselves to softer, more apologetic lumps and pre-sucked blobs.90sRenault EspaceAll hail the world's first purpose-built people carrier - a giant tin in which to keep your family fresh. As European safety regulations grew increasingly stringent, folding everyone into the back and telling them to lap-share was no longer deemed responsible parenting. Families now needed a car that was braced for impact, with ergonomically sensible seat belts, protective headrests and side-curtain airbags. The Espace set new standards in these categories, thereby ushering in an era in which children began refusing to get into cars unless they were contractually guaranteed tinted windows, independently controlled climate zones and a fold-down tray table.The car was responsible for at least two further modern phenomena: the strange desirability of infinitely re-arrangeable seating configurations; and the modern middle-class mathematical conundrum whereby a couple, upon delivery of their second child, abruptly compute that they need a seven-seat car. The front end may have seemed to have something in common with the nose cone on a high-speed train, and the interior may have been kitted out like an aeroplane's, but the Espace nevertheless handled like the bus that it was. But who acquired an Espace to go fast? Not with the children back there, granted unprecedented amounts of air and leg-room, but still asking, "Are we there yet?"
I'm standing in a field under a widescreen blue sky studded with fat, fluffy clouds. To the west loom the impressive silhouettes of hills; to the north, the sea. Spread out directly in front of me, approximately 200 acres of slim green garlic shoots sway gently in the warm breeze. It would be a typically Mediterranean scene, but for the fact that this is the far north of Scotland, an area known more for distilleries and cattle than bumper crops of award-winning allium sativum.The setting is Craggie Farm, the Morayshire home of Glen and Gilli Allingham's Really Garlicky Company (reallygarlicky.co.uk). Although farming is not usually associated with entrepreneurship, the story of how the couple came to be the only UK growers of porcelain garlic contains all the drama of any other start-up's tale - high risk, near disaster, tricky decisions and above all, long hours. Factor in the increasingly unpredictable weather and it becomes all the more remarkable."There's a lot of fascination when people find out we grow our garlic in Scotland," laughs Gilli, sitting in the company's offices, situated just a few miles down the road from the farm, where Glen is tending to the crop. "People usually associate it with coming from France, and most don't know that it grows in the ground. The first question people usually ask is how to get rid of garlic breath. It's really only been the last 10 or 15 years that people in the UK have started using it a lot more."The "foodification" of Britain means more amateur chefs than ever are using the stuff. The fact that garlic has been labelled a cholesterol-busting superfood (not to mention a possible natural cure for erectile dysfunction) has made it more prominent than ever in store cupboards across the land. So how did the Allinghams, originally potato farmers, come to grow the stuff?Diversification has become a necessity for farmers, and six years ago the Allinghams realised that there wasn't much of a living to be made selling potatoes, whose hegemony has slowly been eroded by pasta and rice, not to mention the late Dr Atkins. Looking for something else to grow, the couple attended a meeting held by the Scottish Agricultural College, who wanted farmers to trial crops previously not grown in Scotland."They were offering daffodils, borage, sweetcorn and garlic," says Gilli. "Glen just stuck his hand up and said 'we'll do garlic' and off we went."Success, then near failureArmed with a supply of seed garlic, the couple set to work planting by hand. The trial went well, with the combination of relatively low rainfall, loamy soil and long, light evenings suiting the garlic down to the ground. The bulbs were sold at local markets, along with a range of add-ons such as garlic bread, mayonnaise and oatcakes, made using cosmetically imperfect bulbs. The fact that garlic could be grown in the same soil as the potato crops, at a different time of year, made it a good fit for the existing business. The next year, the Allinghams grew more, and redesigned their products with a distinctive, stylish purple and orange identity and a snappy message ("It's chic to reek") - with not a flash of tartan or a puff-cheeked piper in sight. They received financial backing from Highlands and Islands Enterprise. Things were going well. Waitrose wanted to stock their garlic in more than 140 stores across the UK. Then disaster struck."We didn't have enough garlic of our own to seed a crop big enough to really expand," explains Gilli, "So we got in touch with another producer in Canada. Glen emailed them, but it took a couple of goes to get a reply - they were probably rolling around on the floor laughing at the thought of us trying to grow garlic in Scotland. But eventually we got imported a few tonnes from them. I remember the guy at Prestwick Airport was delighted when we came to take it away from his warehouse! We had just got to the stage where we were talking about a disaster plan - what we would do if the worst thing possible happened. A week later, it did."Some of the imported bulbs had rot and the couple lost half their crop in 2003. What's more, the land affected can't be used for garlic for 40 years. It couldn't have come at a worse time. The couple had to dramatically scale back their Waitrose order ("They were pretty reasonable about it," says Gilli), and find more garlic to keep themselves going. The fact that they do all their selling directly helped to mollify the base of loyal customers who buy their product from more than 300 delis, markets and farm shops.Gilli explains: "We labelled the bought in pink rose garlic as Really Garlicky Rose, put the story on the back of where it's from and explained to customers what had happened. Keeping that contact with customers was very important."Loaves and clovesTaking heed of the old adage about eggs in baskets, the Allinghams sourced a supply of porcelain garlic from Patagonia. New products were added and they struck a deal with Tesco, which stocks their products across Scotland, with an extension down south looking likely. Waitrose is looking at stocking loose bulbs in its stores. Turnover last year was around &pound;400,000, and the couple may get other farmers to grow more garlic for them, as they are landlocked by other farms. A safe supply of seed, produced by micro-propagation, is the next step, to avoid any repeat of the 2003 crop failure. To cap it all, they have won a host of prestigious food awards and been endorsed by Rick Stein, the patron saint of local quality producers.Although the financial rewards of dealing with the big boys are alluring, they come at a price. Supermarkets demand perfect, uniform product and are liable to fine suppliers if they fail to meet quotas. They also have strict guidelines on health and safety. Ever bigger orders means more land turned over to garlic, which means more (eye-wateringly expensive) harvesting equipment and more seasonal labour, all of which means more capital investment. And an expanding company means more focus on marketing and dealing with big business, and therefore a distancing between producer and consumer.This is something the couple are keen to resist. The company is still relatively small, with a full-time staff of four, plus Glen and Gilli and the faithful coterie of Eastern European seasonal workers who pack the picked garlic. All the Really Garlicky products are still prepared by hand - that's 300 loaves of garlic bread a day. Back at Craggie Farm, Glen Allingham, the very epitome of solid, ruddy-cheeked Scottish farming stock, talks about the importance of farmers' markets, and the pressures faced by the agriculture industry."Farmers know more about their customers now than they ever did before," he says. "Being at a market, with just the table separating you from your customer, you find out exactly what they like and dislike about your product. It's much more interesting to have that connection than to just sell wholesale to a merchant."Farmers' markets and trade shows are vital to successfully market the product. But the success of the markets has turned out to be a double-edged sword for the Allinghams. As markets pop up more frequently in the likes of Edinburgh - a good four hours' drive from the farm - it makes it harder to be there every time.The long days - sometimes stretching to 16 hours - and lack of holidays (a week's skiing a year at best) mean sound business sense and a passion for food is essential. Fortunately, both are in good supply, along with a healthy dose of northern stoicism. Indeed, it was food that brought Glen and Gilli together. After training as a chef at Leith's in London, Gilli ran the directors dining room at Lloyds Underwriters ("There was a limitless budget, it was bliss"). She then spent her 20s criss-crossing Scotland as a private cook, keeping tweed-clad parties of aristos and corporate types fed and watered while they hunted, fished and shot. It was while cooking for Glen's father, who then ran Craggie Farm, that she met her future husband and fellow garlic entrepreneur. The couple have two young daughters - both of whom, fortunately, like garlic.With just a month or so until the latest crop is ready to be picked - ensuring the nearby village of Auldearn will be temporarily wreathed with the gentle, grassy tang of fresh garlic - the Allinghams are gearing up for an even more intense period than usual."Farmers were very lucky after the war, as food was so scarce," says Glen, over tea and home-made flapjacks in the cosy farmhouse kitchen. "We certainly aren't owed a living by the land, but it's a hard way of making money - look at the margins the likes of dairy farmers are working on, for example. But we're not doing this just to make money, that's not the end product. We realise we are very lucky to be here, and we do this because we want to stay where we are."And the cure for garlic breath? Chew on some parsley.&#183; Day in the lifeRunning a food business, particularly one based around growing produce, effectively means Glen and Gilli Allingham have to look after two very different operations: one purely agricultural, the other covering all aspects of selling and building on a successful brand."A typical day is really varied," says Gilli. "We're always dealing with enquiries from customers via email and telephone. Then with supplying someone like Tesco there are training courses they send you on to ensure you're an ethical producer and so on."Back here [at the unit, in the kitchens where Really Garlicky products are put together, packaged and labelled] I'll be testing new ideas. We're always looking at diversifying further. At the moment we're trialling frozen garlic puree that you can keep in the freezer and use when you need it. I've just sorted out the packaging for that. When we started we had no idea - "How do you get labels? How do you sort out a brand identity? Fortunately we were put in touch with an advertising agency in Inverness who have been great."As well as farmers' markets there are trade shows. We're off to the BBC Good Food show at the NEC in Birmingham in June, that'll be five days of talking non-stop about garlic, giving advice and doing cooking demonstrations. They're good fun."When the garlic is ready, as it will be in mid-July, there are harvesting gangs to organise, and there are always couriers coming and going to take deliveries. Glen is often in the office late into the evening - he just doesn't stop. Hasn't had a day off for months. It's a seven day a week job."
Abraham Lincoln is sometimes said to have written the Gettysburg Address on a train. That turns out to be a myth, although it is true that the socialist anthem the Red Flag was composed between Charing Cross and New Cross stations in 1889. But the idea of the train as a haven of peace and creativity only took off in the 1980s with the Intercity "Penguin" advertisements ("Anytime you choose/Kick off your shoes") and rapidly lost credence when mobile phones became ubiquitous. Now Virgin Trains wants to revive it.Over the past few months, Virgin has been inviting passengers to email ideas to a website called Be Inspired By Time. The ideas didn't have to be about the journey: the aim was to show that rail journeys were conducive to creative thought and work. But, perhaps inevitably, the travelling public responded by telling Virgin how to improve its trains. Their ideas - 1,400 of them - float in bubbles on the Be Inspired site. Is Virgin taking any notice of them?"We took a conscious decision not to engage with people when they put ideas up," says Sean Watkins, a marketing manager at Virgin. "That was probably the right thing to do." Ninety per cent of the ideas are train-related, and the constructive suggestions do not go unread: every month they are forwarded to Virgin's product development team. "We do want to evolve the site to a place where we're actually putting up replies," says Watkins. Eventually it may be possible to text them from a mobile during the journey.The suggestions range from the wistful ("Keep noisy fans in an end carriage with a locked door") to requests for seat-back TVs and larger luggage racks and highly practical suggestions for labelling the carriages more clearly. But will the company act on them? At the Guardian's request, Watkins and his team explained whether seven of the most frequent suggestions could be implemented.1. "Have an onboard Wi-Fi service.""It's something we've been wanting to do for a while," says Watkins. Virgin is currently looking at the necessary trackside technology and negotiating contracts with Wi-Fi providers and hopes to start rolling out the service on west coast trains by the end of the year. The pricing structure is still undecided, although money could potentially be made from on-demand film downloads. Virgin doesn't yet know whether it will hold on to the cross country franchise, so it can make no promises about Wi-Fi on those routes.2. "Ask the guards to enforce the rules in the quiet coach - too often there are noisy headphones or children in there."Some passengers wanted to enforce absolute silence in the quiet zones. Enforcing the ban on mobiles there is difficult, Watkins admits. Train managers have important duties on board and are understandably reluctant to provoke a confrontation with a passenger, and "an element of self policing" has to take place. Virgin is looking at ways to make the signage clearer and points out that it is now possible to reserve a quiet zone seat on Virgintrains.com or via the company's call centre - but not yet, unfortunately, on Thetrainline.com. As for families, Virgin is keen to attract them, especially at quieter times, and is thinking about trialling a family carriage in the summer.3. "You could have a loyalty card that you build up points on for being a loyal Virgin customer and travelling with them regularly."Virgin already runs a similar scheme for first class passengers and hopes to launch one that will be open to everyone in the summer of 2008. "People will be able to redeem against a number of things, including travel," Watkins says. They are likely to include charitable donations and so-called "green miles" or carbon offsets. Points will be awarded on a value rather than a per-mile basis and passengers will probably earn more if they book online.4. "Offer an alert service which can send SMS messages and emails to people about disruption.""Not without its difficulties," says Watkins. Transport for London already offers free texts and emails warning of delays, but those are aimed at commuters who make short journeys at the same time each day. Any service Virgin does launch will probably involve SMS alerts rather than emails.5. "Electrify all the remaining mainlines as most of Europe has already done years ago. Result: faster, quieter, more reliable and energy-efficient services not dependent on dwindling oil supplies.""This really comes under the remit of Network Rail," says Watkins, reasonably. "Our Pendolinos already run on electricity and emit 78% less CO2 than domestic airlines. The Pendolino trains also return power to the grid every time they brake." Nonetheless, Virgin is about to start a six-month trial of biofuels on a diesel train in Preston. "We use 99m litres of fuel a year, more than any other operator," says spokesman Lee West, "and we believe that if we were to run our Voyager trains on biofuel we'd cut our emissions by 12%. Nobody's done it in this country before." The fuel is a rapeseed blend from sustainable sources. "We've been quite clear with the company that's supplying us that if it comes from a rainforest then we're not interested."6. "A mobile phone signal booster. Surely you can place a dish on the top of the train to pick up mobile phone signals or at least intensify them.""It is a problem," says Watkins. "You'll have seen from the Grayrigg accident how well the trains stand up to a crash, and that's what gets in the way of the signal." Virgin has started rolling out signal enhancers on the Voyagers.7. "Lower fares.""Actually, at the moment we have 20,000 unsold value fares every day," says Watkins ruefully. "We've got a big job to do to tell people these fares are out there." The usual message applies: book early, book online and book a seat.Tried and tested: Virgin's first class tea serviceBoarding the 1540 from Euston to Wolverhampton, I could barely make room to open my laptop. Piled on the table in first class were cups, plates, napkins, glasses, cutlery, doilies, a towelette and a pot of marmalade. Appropriately, given its links with Manchester and Liverpool, Virgin tea is northern tea. Anyone hoping for a cup of Kenco and a croissant would be better off on Eurostar.We had barely passed south Hampstead when the tea and filter coffee came round. A trolley piled with cold drinks and alcohol soon followed. By Bletchley, I had been offered a hot goat's cheese and pepper toastie and four different types of sandwich, two of them vegetarian.The Wensleydale and caramelised carrot chutney option was, frankly, ordinary, and the combination of humous and soft British bread as unsatisfactory as always. There was no sign of the parsnip crisp garnish promised on the menu. But it was shortly before the train left Rugby that Virgin's piece de resistance was wheeled down the carriage: a trolley, heaving with a whole orange and cranberry cake, flapjacks, chocolates and scones bulging with cream.The scone was perched on a little doily decorated with the leaping blue cow that promises real dairy cream. The jam was a little scanty, but the pot of marmalade provided just enough acidity to cut through the cream and dough. More coffee arrived. By the time the crumbs had been cleared away at Birmingham International, it was a quarter to five, and supper already seemed unthinkable.With difficulty, I managed to put away three excellent Thai crab fishcakes and a plate of the parsnip crisps on the return journey. Whatever their other complaints, Virgin first class passengers are never knowingly underfed.
Collaborating on a document is, in theory, simple. You create the document, someone else puts in some changes - usually with "track changes" on - then someone else changes it a bit more and eventually it comes back to you.Except it doesn't have to be like that any more. Why should it change? Quite simply, things can be done better. Supposing, for example, that the first author thought of a change just after sending the piece to the first amender - so he or she asks for it back. The process slows down. There's more; we're all familiar with the dreaded "multiple version syndrome" in which different versions of a document circulate around the office, each purporting to be the latest and definitive one.For this reason a number of web-based services, both from established and less established brands, have opted to do things differently. Consider a web-based solution to the problem. Participant A logs on to a remote computer and creates a document, so participant B can log on and have a look and change it at will. Participant A can of course log back on and alter it immediately, sometimes simultaneously, as can participant B, C or D. The version on the system is always current and can be opened by more than one person simultaneously.The beginnerWriteboardWriteboard is far simpler to use than the other offerings under review, but then it would be since it does vastly less. Creating a document is a pushover - name it, decide on a password, enter your email address and hit the enter button - it's done immediately without fuss. The word processor itself is basic; you can enter commands to make text bold or italic and there are more formatting commands on a slightly hidden menu but there is no spell check and although the blurb claims it's suitable for journalists and authors, no word count (which is fundamental in those areas).Nevertheless, for people whose requirement is very basic and for whom this is unlikely to change, this is a useful free facility that removes much of the pain of sharing a document between colleagues.URL:www.writeboard.comPrice:freeBest thing:simplicityWorst thing:word processing onlyStar rating:4/5The well-known brandGoogleDocsGoogleDocs offers spreadsheet and word processing functions, hosted on Google's computers. They're easy to use and getting around the site to offer other people permission to come in and edit your document is reasonably straightforward. Better still, the company is offering shared calendars and photo facilities, which suits the small business or social group very well indeed.The main caveat is that this is beta software. In other words, it could all go terribly wrong, although this appears unlikely; the same company's Gmail mail service was in beta for years and then came out of it with beta testers largely unaffected.More seriously for a business, users must be Google customers, which might meet resistance from some employees or commercial partners.In the right circumstances, however, this is likely to represent an excellent choice for collaborative documents. The editing facilities on the word processor move above the very basic and include formatting and some spell checking; the more basic word processing user could well forget they are using a remote service.This looks likely to become a very popular service. Unlike the Writeboard system, it feels natural to use if someone is accustomed to Microsoft Word and other word processing programmes. It can be used in conjunction with a Gmail account and is effectively a free online office suite.URL:http://docs.google.comPrice:freeBest thing:ease of use and familiarityWorst thing:the need for a Google account - free of charge, but won't suit all in the business worldStar rating:5/5Beyond the basicsBasecampIf your needs are more complicated than simple documentation you'll need to consider one of the paying options. Basecamp is an excellent project management tool. You upload rather than create documents online, but it's excellent for version tracking and optional extras such as SSL security are available.The software's true strength, however, is its management facility. Do-lists, a time management feature that allows you to see who's been doing what and for how long, messaging, "writeboards" for brainstorming, and a number of other elements are included as standard. Colours are user-determined, so this can look like part of your corporate intranet if you want it to.Clearly this won't suit everybody, and the cost for a large amount of projects starts to become considerable. However, for a customiseable intranet lookalike that will enable collaboration with external as well as internal personnel it is hard to beat.URL:www.basecamphq.comPrice:free for two projects then between about &pound;6 per month to &pound;75 per month depending on number of projects and usersBest thing:flexibilityWorst thing:the sophistication won't be necessary for everyoneStar rating:5/5The commercial brandMicrosoft Office Live EssentialsDo you have a website with which you're happy? Then the chances are that Microsoft's Office Live package isn't for you. Microsoft has tailored this offering to the small business and, even at its most basic, it includes a website, domain name and the means to drive customers to your site; the Essentials version also includes some shared workspace.Microsoft has noticed a large number of customers taking this workspace up instead of simply opting for a professional-looking website, which was what was expected internally; no doubt this is in part due to everyone who wants a website for their small business having one already.The collaborative element, however, is very much a part of the middle-range offering and you can also organise client information online. In addition to this already-powerful package, the Premium version, costing &pound;22.99 per month, offers task management as well as additional space and tools.Early signs are that the company will develop the shared space idea further, although nothing has been announced officially as yet and it looks unlikely that actual Office applications are going to be made available online. This will be frustrating to some as will the fact that Microsoft has found its target market wants a website above all else - lots of organisations will have that already and won't want to pay for it again, but might welcome the collaborative elements of the package.URL:www.office.microsoft.com/en-us/officelive/default.aspxPrice:&pound;11.99 per monthBest thing:flexibilityWorst thing:runs the risk of duplicating elements people already haveStar rating:4/5
Like all small business founders, they started with a good idea. But our five eBay Business Sense contestants had to fight their way past hundreds of other entrants just to make the final stage. Then, over the last few months, they were tested by the need to master the various opportunities and tactics of eBay, the pressures to adapt their plans, and an unexpected challenge from us as well.In the end, the judges decided that Joe Williams, whose Laptop Scrapyard eBay shop sells both parts salvaged from broken laptops and fully-refurbished machines, was the winner of the second eBay Business Sense challenge."He really got the ethos of what an eBay business is about," says Andrew Dudley, one of the judges and managing director of Postal Supplies Direct, an eBay-based business of five years' standing. He gives Williams credit for having chosen a year-round line of trade: "He's got a really sustainable business there."Williams himself agrees: he has recently established a limited company for Laptop Scrapyard, bringing in a friend as a minority shareholder and part-time employee, in addition to his existing IT support business. Much of the &pound;2,500 prize money will be used to expand the new company.Williams says the competition went well for him. "It's all gone quite smoothly; I haven't had any major problems with sales." However, he has he adjusted the business in several ways during the competition: "There are things like hard drives and memory sticks which I always auction, which seems to get the best price for them, and I'm now stripping laptops down further than I used to." He tries to sell everything, even faulty components for a pound or two: "Quite often, people do come along and buy them."Andrew Dudley praises Williams for having good channels of communication, including listing a telephone number and Skype name, the latter for internet calls. "If you make it easier for the buyer to get hold of you, you are going to win the business," he says. Williams says he has received a few telephone calls, usually just before or just after someone makes a purchase, to ask advice on fitting it, although very few have come through Skype.Dudley also liked the blog Williams has run throughout the competition. Williams saw an eBay Business Sense competitor from last year, Clare Tomkins, use a blog to good effect (Tomkins is still selling personalised children's bags on eBay athttp://stores.ebay.co.uk/back-to-school)."It was an interesting thing to read, so I thought I would do something similar." He used eBay's own blogging facility, introduced during the competition: "I could see the potential, when people read the articles and were looking at my pages, I could get some interest there."Also, Dudley says that Williams has created a personality for Laptop Scrapyard, something he thinks was important in building Postal Supplies Direct. Williams used his two cats in the photography for the online shop: "It was something a bit quirky," he says. "They are often around when I am taking laptops to pieces - they start playing with screws." He says he has tried photographing them pawing a (computer) mouse, but they always scamper away before he can get a picture.Williams says those seeking to build a business on eBay business should research their market thoroughly. "One of the advantages I had was that I was selling into an established market, so from day one I could start shifting things," he says. "Some of the contestants were creating a market themselves."Not all the prize money will be re-invested: rather as last year's winner, Roger Eigenheer, used his winnings to fund his entry into an amateur stage of the Tour de France cycle race, Williams is also planning foreign travel in an unlikely vehicle.In his case, it is a 1990 Mercedes 190E with 120,000 miles on the clock, costing &pound;100, which Williams describes as "mistreated". He and friends are entering a car banger rally starting on June 24, which will hopefully see them getting to Casablanca in Morocco - and, ideally, back again - in aid of the Warwickshire and Northamptonshire Air Ambulance. They have already rebuilt much of the engine: "We took it out last night and got two miles before we had to take it back again," says Williams, who is looking for sponsorship atwww.roughrunnings.co.uk.Joe Williams beat Diane Davidson, who sells Mexican hammocks and related items, by a short head: she made more money, based on the total final prices of her sales, and won a recent "mystery shopper" challenge, where eBay staff secretly placed an order with all five contestants. The items from Davidson, Williams and Karl Anderson all arrived the next day, but Davidson's packaging was judged best, with a sticker on the envelope and a colour leaflet inside.Future salesDavidson says she includes a leaflet with every item she sells, providing instructions such as how to install hammocks, some information on where her products come from and to promote future sales.Overall, "I'm very happy with how it went," she says of the competition. "It's taken off. Mexican hammocks are obviously much-desired on eBay, and they have been selling very well."They and the blankets she also sells are seasonal products, however, so Davidson has started a new line, of Mexican Papel Picado paper banners: these are widely used for the Day of the Dead, or All Soul's Day, holiday at the start of November. "I've never seen them in this country before," says Davidson, but she is seeing customer interest.She says that the first two months establishing the business were "quite intense" but it is getting easier to run. In terms of advice for those thinking about starting an eBay business, she says: "It's about having the right idea, something you're knowledgeable about and passionate about."Other contestants also have plans to expand their businesses, although not always on eBay. Karl Anderson, who sells large-size men's shoes, was not able to find a US firm to supply these - he purchased the items he sold in the competition from British shops - so is in discussions with a Dutch shoe designer on creating his own line of footwear, to be manufactured in Spain and Portugal."It's a matter of saving up money from the competition, so I have got capital to pay the designer's fees," says Anderson, who is a first-year business student at the University of Kent in Canterbury. "There is quite a lot of outlay on plates and cutting the leather. Production may have to wait until I have got the money or a loan." He adds that he plans to sell these online initially, although moving towards his own website and perhaps shop sales over time: "My view is that they will almost be bespoke smart shoes, and people want a bargain on eBay."David Hallworth, who sells pure-cotton school dresses made in India, is also pushing ahead with his business. "It started pretty slowly, as I had supply problems, and getting round the eBay software problems," he says. However, the competition provided the opportunity to experiment. "We've been able to test the market," he says. "We've found people are happy with the dresses, and it seems like a good idea."Hallworth is asking customers what other clothes they would like for their children, and says that some who bought one dress have returned for two or three more. He adds that he had his doubts about selling his goods on eBay: "It's where you go for a second-hand car, not this wholesome, whole-food sort of thing," he says of his initial perception, but he has found customers. In future, however, he plans to establish a separate website.Phyllis Avery, who has been selling dolls and writing cards for children, says she could not devote enough time to establishing her business on eBay. "This happened at the busiest time for my real job," she says, at a publisher. "It was a tall order for someone who didn't know how eBay worked, and I had to create the product, so it was an awful lot of work."But this looks set to pay off in an unexpected fashion. The cards, on which children can write their thoughts and worries, feature characters designed by Avery called Dolly Doodles - and she has had approaches from several publishers for the book rights. She is also looking at producing a game based on the characters, and although she has established a separate website for future activities (www.dollydoodles.co.uk), "I am going to keep my space on eBay," she says.Results tableName:Joe Williams (winner)Trading name:laptopscrapyardShop URL:www.laptopscrapyard.netFeedback rating:161 (100%)Mystery shopper challenge:item arrived next dayName:Diane Davidson (runner-up)Trading name:between-the-treesShop URL:http://stores.ebay.co.uk/between-the-treesFeedback rating:78 (100%)Mystery shopper challenge:winner - item arrived next day with excellent packagingName:Karl AndersonTrading name:onegiantstepfootwearShop URL:http://stores.ebay.co.uk/one-giant-step-footwearFeedback rating:46 (100%)Mystery shopper challenge:item arrived next dayName:David HallworthTrading name:100percent_pure_cottonShop URL:http://stores.ebay.co.uk/100percentpurecottonFeedback rating:39 (100%)Mystery shopper challenge:item arrived three days laterName:Phyllis AveryTrading name:dollydoodle2007Shop URL:http://stores.ebay.co.uk/dollydoodles2007Feedback rating:19 (100%)Mystery shopper challenge:item arrived four days later with excellent packagingThe winner was determined by factors including eBay's records of profits made, assessments of contestants' online shops and feedback scores, the results of specific challenges and the judges' expert opinions
BooksYour guide to avoiding a costly dotcom disasterOn the bookshelf this month is Chris Standring's The Ultimate Website Promotion Handbook (Montserrat Publishing) - a "step by step guide to getting page one rankings with the major search engines and to making money with your website".My feelings were far from positive on opening the book. It's not that I have anything against people profiting from their sites, far from it, but how many times have we seen a "make money on the internet" book, and how many of them are actually any good?Happily, this one is the exception. As early as page 15, Standring is talking about what not to sell on the internet, which is refreshing. He then talks about having a sensible name for your site and how search engines have occasionally been known to move the goal posts - so keeping on top of their rules is vitally important.For example, Standring had a successful site selling hotel reservations, but then Google altered the way it ranked sites and his income suddenly shot down because he wasn't aware of the changes. He also stresses that people need to know that their business is something for which people are likely to search on the internet, a point often missed in these kind of books.Inevitably, he overstates his case somewhat. He mentions sites that do well in search engines despite not having the term searched for in their name - for example when someone types "loadsofbooks.com" into Google, they may end up finding and then clicking on Amazon instead.My impression is that Amazon works almost without search engine help because its brand has been so successful - people enter the name straight into their address bar.There is also useful advice on affiliations and some good stuff on establishing links with other websites and how this can work or indeed backfire spectacularly. He is also brave enough to include his email address in case readers disagree and want to tell him so!GadgetsShredders aim to leave identity thieves in tattersThe gadget shelf, on the other hand, has been weighed down by a new shredder.There has been a lot in the press about identity theft and a lot about how technology can help avoid the problems associated with it; much of this omits simple human error (last month in this column I highlighted a survey that suggested people hand over their confidential details for a pretty smile and a bar of chocolate).For this reason, Snopake has launched the latest in its range of shredders which will of course destroy documents individuals and businesses don't want to leak.More interestingly than this, Snopake has actually borne in mind that some people work in remarkably small offices. The home worker doesn't actually want yet another large piece of electronic jiggery-pokery. So the new range, with 3-cut, 5-cut and 7-cut offerings and optional credit card and CD/DVD destruction, will tuck behind most flat monitors quite unobtrusively because they have been designed for space rather than simply for function.SecurityWhy an iPod could pose the biggest threat of allAnother security story came up at last month's Infosec conference in London. A survey suggested that portable mass storage devices - flash memory keys, phones, music players - are now regarded as the biggest threat to security by a lot of companies. The strange thing is what they're doing about it, which is precisely nothing.Only 16% of the survey's respondents said they used software to monitor the risks associated with removable devices, which can be considerable (an 80 gigabyte iPod, for example, is an 80 gigabyte drive with music attachments - it can carry any data at all). Twenty seven per cent relied on managerial discretion to manage the issue in spite of some 38% of companies believing the portable devices to be a threat to their company, compared with 22% considering malware to be a danger and 23% seeing web viruses as the biggest area of risk.The idea of taking information from corporate computers is far from new, but the technology on offer at the moment - Amazon will sell a 2 gigabyte pen drive for under &pound;10 - makes it easier and cheaper for wrongdoers to appropriate the data in a lax environment. The Infosec survey gives this sort of activity a new name, Wipping, which stands for walk-in intellectual property poaching. The practice is increasingly common, the organisers suggest, and it accuses businesses of burying their heads in the sand by doing nothing to prevent it.It should be stressed that the drives, music players and phones are normally harmless in themselves as long and they have a fully legitimate use.ITBT offers small business a free technology check-upPeople who have been meaning to check that their IT is up to date and performing well for their business might to worse than to check BT's offer of a free check-up on technology, which runs until July 1. Aimed at the smaller business with no dedicated IT support - BT's figures suggest over a third of small companies rely on friends or family for this - it is part of the organisation's "Do What You Do Best" campaign and interested businesses can find out more by calling 0800 707 6312 or looking atwww.bt.com/itreview. It's open to anyone with five employees or more.After making contact, an advisor from BT will be in touch within a couple of days to organise the review. They will talk about BT's own products mostly but you don't have to be an existing customer to take part.EnvironmentPractical advice for the green-minded enterpriseIT managers and directors wanting to improve their organisation's green credentials will be pleased to note the launch of the Green Technology Initiative atwww.greentechnologyinitiative.org. It touts a Gartner research claim that energy from manufacturing, distribution and use of information from the communications industry is actually equal to 2% of the world's carbon emissions - which makes IT as big a polluter as the airline industry.The focus of the website is going to be on practical means of changing working practices and improving people's carbon impacts immediately. The founders swear there will be no talk about carbon offsetting or other long-term ideas but practical advice on how to improve an organisation's impact right now. Founding members include Carrenza, Cisco, EDF Energy, Global Crossing and Saatchi & Saatchi Interactive.
Regular readers will have been following the story of our second eBay Business Sense competition these last few months. in this issue we name the winner, and review the progress - and lessons learned - of our five finalists. It's something of a platitude to say all of them did well to make it this far, but it's still true; we hope their trials and tribulations have been of use to those of you contemplating starting a business of your own.Business Sense is read far and wide, of course, but our contestants don't have to deal with quite the same pressures of stardom as those young hopefuls battling, and bitching, it out on the BBC series The Apprentice. This month's top story sees Guy Clapperton track down a few of the candidates from previous series, to find out if being taken apart by Sir Alan Sugar on national television actually does them any good (or harm) in the long run.Inside this month's section, Jamie Milne has the tale of Gilli and Glenn Allingham, who grew the first even commercial garlic crop in the UK - near Inverness. Their tale of triumph over some considerable hurdles is well worth a read.We also take a look through a range of online collaboration tools. They're becoming increasingly popular as a way of managing projects being worked on by a number of people scattered through an organisation, or even geographically. You may find what you need to make your next bit of project work go that bit more smoothly.Or you could choose to leave all that complexity behind, of course. Nick Clayton, in his ever-popular A Desk in the Sun column, finds a nifty way to make money wherever you are in the world, by answering other people's pub quiz questions. As the weather gets sunnier again, we might conclude that's nice work if you can get it.
Despite the much-vaunted move towards mobile working it's hard to find "martini jobs", the sort you can do any time, anywhere. Then you could hit the road with a backpack, safe in the knowledge you could earn enough in a few hours to keep you going when needed.Well, I've just been speaking to Ben Bradley who has been doing exactly that. And it's all on the basis of knowing, or knowing where to find out: Who is the only footballer to have scored a hat-trick in all four divisions? Who is Top Gear's "The Stig"? And, simply: What is the meaning of life? Read on and all will be revealed.When I spoke to Ben he was just back from Paris where he had been taking a French course. Before that he had been in Kenya as a volunteer instructor helping with Aids awareness. "I'm thinking of spending the summer in Croatia before I start a postgrad course in development management so I can work with NGOs, the UN or whatever."All this has been financed through the hours Ben spends each week as a "texpert". This is a term coined by his employers 82ask, a service which provides rapid answers to questions texted to 82275 - "275" spells "ask" on a mobile phone's keypad. Each query costs the texter &pound;1. The questions are fielded by a small army of texperts sitting at internet-connected computers which can be anywhere. When Ben was in Kenya that meant heading to the nearest town and sitting in an internet cafe for a few hours every couple of days.By British standards the pay isn't fantastic. Texperts get about 30p per question answered. Ben reckons he makes between &pound;5 and &pound;9 an hour. Converted into Kenyan shillings, however, the money looks rather better. He didn't have to answer a huge number of questions to support himself.Possibly more of a challenge was the difference in time zone. It's two or three hours later in Kenya than in the UK depending on the season. Kenya doesn't have summer time. And texperts have to be prepared for considerable fluctuations in demand which makes for somewhat unsociable working hours.Peak time is, unsurprisingly, Friday night. It's not just a matter of resolving drunken arguments about which year Manchester United were relegated from the old First Division. (That would be 1974. Even I know that.) There are more prosaic queries about which bus to get home or which pubs are open late. No matter how the global reach of the internet becomes, it still seems extraordinary that a question about bus timetables from a drunken punter in Newcastle is being answered, if only he knew, by somebody in an African internet cafe.Being a fast Googler might be seen as a necessary qualification for texperts, but, in fact the world's most popular search engine can be a little slow compared with more specialist sources or the database of responses to questions that have already been answered. Texperts also have their own particular areas of expertise. So Ben specialises in literature, Africa and sport. The last is a potentially lucrative specialism as can be seen from 82ask's Glasgow based football texpert who has just passed the 100,000 mark for questions answered."You get a lot of trivia questions on weekday evenings," says Ben. "I'd hate to think we'd be in some way responsible for the death of the pub quiz."There must be an awful lot of quiz-cheaters furtively texting under tables. The growth rate of 82ask has been averaging 28% each month with little spending on advertising. Services are being added such as links to online maps for location-based questions. The company has also received funding to develop its sophisticated back-end systems.Now I'm going to save you three quid in text queries. Robert Earnshaw is the only player to have scored a hat-trick at all levels of English professional football, the FA and League Cups and at full international level. Top Gear's the Stig is usually former ASCAR driver Ben Collins, but sometimes he's a private owner. The old Stig was ex-F1 driver Perry McCarthy.Finally, in less than 160 characters: "Meaning of life is: a 1983 Monty Python film, in D Adams HH's Guide to the Galaxy 42 or: happiness (ultiliarianism) no fear (Epicurus), no needs (buddhism)."Nick Clayton is a freelance writer and web content consultant&#183;Have you started a business overseas? If so I'd like to hear from you. Contact me at:nick@adeskinthesun.com
MondayStarcraft 2 unveiledPlaying not so nice: Folding@HomeAmateur video game predictions are accurateUbisoft life-coachingTuesdayInterview: Little Bit PlanetStrange relationshipsWednesdayFrozen Indigo Angel + Perplex City + Big Weekend = one giant ARGLumines PLus giveaway deadline approachesUbidays: Sam Fisher goes badThursdayUbidays ImpressionsNaughty Dog co-founders are picked up by MySpaceReviewsVideogame becomes front page satireFridayBank Holiday gamingEmbrace user-generated content says Half-Life makerSims: the movie
Just had an email from Steve Green ofDigital Radio Techthat says; "you were right about DAB coming to the iPod". Apress release from Frontier Siliconsays it has teamed up with Roberts Radio "to develop a DAB/FM plug-in accessory that allows listeners to tune into their favourite radio stations using an iPod. The plug-in, which is the first of its kind, measures just 52.4 x 32.0 x 8.1 mm and is based on Frontier Silicon's Kino 2 DAB IC."It says "Roberts will launch the product in October 2007 at an RRP of 49.99."The Kino 2 chip could also support DAB+. However, Steve says: "I've just contacted Frontier-Silicon, and they said this device won't support it, because DAB+ requires additional memory to store the AAC+ and error correction coding software." Since there are no DAB+ broadcasts yet, Roberts has opted to keep the price down.This is a blow to my theory that suppliers would be able to include DAB+ for little or no extra cost. However, this game will take ages to play out, and memory gets cheaper every year.
"European data protection officials have raised concerns that Google could be contravening European privacy laws by keeping data on internet searches for too long," saysThe Financial Times.This repeatsissues raised by the Norwegian Data Inspectoratelast year, "as part of a larger investigation of Norwegian search engines. Sesam and Kvasir".Peter Fleischer, European privacy counsel for Google, said the company needed to keep search information for some time for security purposes - to help guard against hacking and people trying to misuse Google's advertising system.Google chief executive Eric Schmidt recently prompted a round ofBig Brotherscare stories by saying Google wanted to know so much about users that it could tell them what to do --a competition won by The Independent.This story included a couple of interesting paras:Ross Anderson, professor of Security Engineering at Cambridge University and chairman of the Foundation for Information Policy Research, said there was a real issue with "lock in" where Google customers find it hard to extricate themselves from the search engine because of the interdependent linkage with other Google services, such as iGoogle, Gmail and YouTube. He also said internet users could no longer effectively protect their anonymity as the data left a key signature."A lot of people are upset by some of this. Why should an angst-ridden teenager who subscribes to MySpace have their information dragged up 30 years later when they go for a job as say editor of the Financial Times? But there are serious privacy issues as well. Under data protection laws, you can't take information, that may have been given incidentally, and use it for another purpose. The precise type and size of this problem is yet to be determined and will change as Google's business changes."Apparently the Information Commissioner doesn't care because of "the voluntary nature of the information being targeted". Yeah, right.If Google wants to make it voluntary, it can put a big tick box on its home page that says: "Yes, you can compile, store and analyse information about me and my searches." The default, obviously, is NOT. At the moment, Google (like most other search engines) is doing it by the back door. Seems to me that it's involuntary for those not aware enough, and geeky enough, to stop it.Google complained about Microsoft's IE7saying it was too hard to change the default search engine. Here's a tip: you can "don't be evil" by making it even easier to opt for privacy protection when using Google.
A PC thinner than a Motorola Razr? Intel is showing off an ultra-thin notebook designed by Ziba Design in Portland, Oregon, but bear in mind it's a prototype: you can't buy one yet, even if you could afford one.Business Week says:The ... Intel mobile Metro notebook is less than 0.7 inches thick--about one-quarter of an inch thicker than Motorola's iconic cell phone, making it the world's thinnest notebook. And at 2.25 pounds, it's also one of the lightest small-sized portable computers. Other features include always-on Internet connectivity via various wireless technologies.One of the cute features is the extra external screen that lets you see things without opening the machine, using Windows Vista's SideShow.The Metro is thin partly because it uses a Flash drive instead of a hard disk. But whether it is actually the thinnest is another matter. Three years ago, Sony showed the very similarVaio X505, which measured 0.75 inches at its thickest point and 0.3 inches at its thinnest. The Metro is slightly thinner at its thickest, but overall?By the way, although it was something of a marvel, the X505 didn't survive for very long, because of the price.Update:the Vista-relatedAeroXperience bloghas released a hi-def video of the Metro from last month's WinHEC conference. For BitTorrent users: VC-1/WMA | 1920x1080 | MD5:1484c8197046452e4b180d5968fa39a1
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Yes, Varietyreportsthat Fox has picked up the movie rights to EA's The Sims. Ah, you're thinking, a feature-length mainstream machinima using character models and environments from the game in a witty analysis of society both virtual and physical? Er, no. Alive actionmovie. A live action movie on a game that seeks to replicate real-life. Either someone at Fox has been reading Plato and want's to make a statement about the nature of reality, or they've just gone "well, people like The Sims so let's get the rights and 'worry' about the logistics later..."Sims Studio head Rod Humble is quoted as saying, "The SIMS has done an interactive version of an old story, which is what it's like to have infinite power and how do you deal with it". This suggests the movie will be looking at the player's role, rather than simply representing a Sims environment. Which would just be a sort of soap opera, but with characters liable to wet themselves and blow-up their microwaves.So, friday question: which game - other than Sims - would make the most bizarre choice for a movie conversion?
Continuing with this week's User-Generated Content theme, it seems gamesblog isn't the only outlet to suggest that content creation is essential for the continuing evolution of the games industry. Valve marketing director Doug Lombardi recently waved the UGC flag during an interview withgamesindustry.biz.From the company that created Half Life, the game which spawned some of the great first person shooter mods, comes big respect for the PC dev community:"Half-Life 1 was okay as a multiplayer game and Team Fortress Classic was really good, but Counter-Strike kicked both their asses no question. And that came from a kid going to college in Canada and another kid going to high school in New Jersey, who had our code and thought it would be cool to play our game."The PC has that great advantage; has had that great advantage, and it comes from multiplayer and modding starting in the early '90s and [online] multiplayer only showing up on consoles in 2000 or 2001.You've got a good 10-to-15-year lead there and you still have broken pathways on both consoles, so the PC has the advantage of time and a clear pathwayOur interview with Little Big Planet's Leo Cubbin earlier this week demonstrated that PlayStation's heart is in the right place, but the Sony walled garden will keep that user-generated experience firmly siloed unless the bods throw their sights a little wider and create games which other people can play. Someone once tried to convince me that the PC is the machine for Everyman. I was sceptical. Now, with hindsight, I believe him.
The announcement overnight of the "Facebook platform", F8, certainly looks like it will cement the site'sincreasinglystrong position in social networking and bring outside developers under the wings of the site.It's certainly a long-awaited move, and brings it up to speed with all the other widgetised sites like MySpace. But it also takes it further - this is a proper developer resource and they will be enabling people who use F8 to generate their own revenues without sharing them with the parent site. That's the way you grow this sort of business.The buzz-driven tech news sphere seems to think it's the second coming. But at the moment, it's still just a way to build widgets. Let's see what people do with it first before we make a judgment.
You can't have too many of them - yes, it's another Bank Holiday this weekend (in the UK). And with the weather supposed to be awful there's no excuse not to get some gaming in. Rain means game right? So, if you can swing some free time what are you planning on playing? The biggest releases this weekend areMario Strikers Charged Football(Wii) and Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End (every format bar Dragon 32). I've not played either but am hardly quivering in anticipation. Nope, for me it will be a little bit more Halo 3 beta (still not convinced, mind), and a bit ofOkamiif it works better on the newly updated PS3. What are your gaming plans?
A decade after we nerds started using the term, "e-government" has entered the chattering class's lexicon. "E-government? Isn't that what they call the town council in Yorkshire?" one of the wags on Radio Four's News Quiz quipped last week. The reference was to a special case of e-government, Estonia, and the claim that its online existence was under attack from Russia.Estonia is a special case because the Baltic state has one of the world's most advanced electronic administrations. On independence, it took advantage of small size and made a clean sweep of obsolete Soviet bureaucracy, installing a state-of-the art government machine. For the past few years, it has been hailed as an exemplary e-government, where citizens and businesses enthusiastically sign on to pay taxes, notify changes of circumstances and vote online.British government modernisers have often gazed with envy at their Baltic counterparts. The Estonians seem to be immune from the large IT project disasters and privacy backlashes that have made e-government a hot potato to be passed around British ministerial portfolios as quickly as possible. In Britain so far the main political impact of e-government has been not excitement, but justifiable grumbles at the impact on rural post offices and less justifiable whingeing at road pricing.Any envy in Whitehall evaporated last week, however, as Estonia encountered the downside of 21st century e-government: vulnerability to attack. For the UK government seems hell-bent on pursuing a similar road towards vulnerability.Despite ministerial talk of localism, the entire thrust of the programme of public service reform is towards centralisation. The eventual aim is for all online transactions with the government to go through just two websites, Direct.gov for citizens and Businesslink for businesses. Government agencies will increasingly share systems such as the Department for Work and Pensions' citizen database. Everyone is talking about "shared back offices" and "one-stop shops".Much of this drive is welcome: it is patently daft for government to run more than 4,000 websites. One of the most promising innovations is the joint service centre, where a single office can help with needs from social security benefits and disabled parking permits to flu vaccinations.Centralisation comes with penalties, however. One is that, however centralised services are arranged geographically, some users will lose convenience. Another penalty comes with size and complexity: government systems are already too big, and big and complex IT systems go wrong more often than small and simple ones.Finally, as the Estonian experience shows, there is the vulnerability caused by creating a single point of failure. Not just to cyber-attack, but to old-fashioned terrorism. Not to mention industrial action: if the Treasury is considering taking on public-sector unions in the next spending round, it might want to reflect that picket lines can be shared services, too.These questions and more will go in to the pot as Gordon Brown's administration works out what to do with the ramshackle, diverse and occasionally brilliant e-government infrastructure it inherits from the Blair years. One last thing: we don't call it e-government any more. Inside Whitehall, everyone's talking about transformational government, now. This time, the joke almost writes itself: "T-government? Does that mean everything stops for T?"&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
If it's anything like the outcome of the further research on the health effects of mobile phones that was called for in 2000, then it'll probably show that we need ... more research.In both cases, the man calling for that little bit more investigation has been Sir William Stewart, who headed the eponymous inquiry which reported in May 2000 on the available scientific evidence about phones. That said there was no evidence that mobiles were harmful; but no proof they were harmless. A total of &pound;7m of government and industry money was pledged for investigation. Seven years later, there's still no definitive "proof" that mobiles are harmless though; and no peer-reviewed, replicated work suggesting they're harmful to the population at large. Tests on people who say that mobile phones give them headaches have been, at best, inconclusive; in "provocation" tests, scientists found no link between having an active or non-active phone in the vicinity and the subjects' reported headaches or health.But in Monday's Panorama, Sir William, now chairman of the Health Protection Agency, called for a review of the health effects of Wi-Fi after concerns had been raised anecdotally about headaches and the strength of the electromagnetic fields around a Wi-Fi laptop.The trouble is, there's not that much work on Wi-Fi to review. So what sort of research work should be commissioned? To determine whether Wi-Fi causes acute health effects, provocation studies are best. To study long-term health effects would need large epidemiological studies, ideally interviewing hundreds (preferably thousands) of people about their Wi-Fi use, other lifestyle factors and general health.Follow-ups five or 10 years later could establish if the ones who have used Wi-Fi obsessively are less healthy (after allowing for smoking, socioeconomic status and other potential influences on health). Subjecting rats and mice to Wi-Fi could show if it affects their health.The tricky question is what to do in the meantime. Some argue that the precautionary principle demands that we remove Wi-Fi networks from schools, or even ban them altogether until they can be "proved safe". But no scientist can ever tell you that a technology is totally "safe". If Wi-Fi were completely untested technology there might be a stronger case for a precautionary ban, but from what we know, there appears to be no reason for concern.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Top of the chipsIBM has produced the world's fastest processor, a dual-corePower6 chipthat runs at 4.7GHz - for servers only.News in briefsSwitzerland's Isabodywear is launchingsilver-threaded men's underwearthat protects sperm from mobile phone radiation.Hot trendsGoogle has started publishing a daily list of the "hottest 100" US searches, excluding things such as "inappropriate language" and pornography.google.com/trends/hottrendsMake entertainment historyMicrosoft will releaseHalo 3in the US on September 25, and in Europe the day after.2,000-song phoneSamsung has developed an8GB microSD cardthat will store about 2,000 songs on a mobile phone.Greying internet ...Hitwise says: "Internet users aged 55+, the so-called silver surfers, are set to overtake 35-44-year-olds with the largest representation online."... is nearly hereTomorrow is Silver Surfers' Day, organised by Digital Unite with Ofcom.silversurfersday.orgBugs a problem?Hela has introduced the Duraflex Comfort roll-up waterproof USB keyboard, which you can wash and disinfect. It's aimed at the health and food industries, labs, schools - and people who want to type outdoors in the rain.hela.co.uk
It is difficult to grasp how successful the mobile phone industry has become. People think of it as a sideshow compared to the internet, yet in terms of revenues generated from content, it is already far bigger. Revenues from the web are about $25bn (&pound;12.5bn) but the content on mobile networks is reckoned by Informa to be worth $31bn - and that is before music and mobile TV take off in a big way.Tomi Ahonen, a strategy consultant, points out that whereas porn and gambling drove revenues on the internet, five content groups are more successful than adult material on mobile phones: music, infotainment, images, videogames and web browsing. He reminds us that in 2005 one annoying ringtone, Crazy Frog, outsold all of iTunes. A key reason is that most content on the web is free whereas mobile phones arrived with a payment system pre-installed for calls, followed by a premium service for texting. If the web had had its own payment system it would have taken a different course.But the payment regime for mobiles is now a big problem, not to say a scandal. If you download music from the web to a phone it could cost up &pound;24 because most operators charge by the amount of data transferred. Andrew Bud, executive chairman of mBlox, a big mobile transactions company, likens this to a postal service in which you don't know whether the cost is nothing or &pound;24 until the letter arrives. Small wonder that most most tracks are obtained by "sideloading" from a computer rather than being downloaded from web to phone.In an ideal world, pricing information would be freely available and people would adjust their buying behaviour accordingly. But an mBlox survey found that 74% of respondents were not even aware of what simple downloads such as music tracks cost. They would be appalled to know that a "free" music track and even an unsolicited advert could prove costly. There is no such thing as a free download.The obvious answer is to sign up for an "all you can eat" tariff available from the 3 network in the UK under which you pay a higher monthly amount and have (virtually) unlimited data downloads including music and TV. Bud says that although it will work for some people it isn't a viable solution because in the short term it can't be universally applied, thanks to the popularity of pre-paid phones on which it doesn't work; in any case, the operators can't force people on to such (more expensive) tariffs.In the long term it wouldn't work either, he argues, because the mobile infrastructure, less resilient than the internet, would collapse under the weight of unlimited demand and a tariff structure that froze the prices operators charged while exposing them to unlimited increases in their costs. He doesn't think that Wi-Fi - under which you can bypass operators' charges by routing your calls for nothing through the internet by a wireless connection - is a long-term fix, either.His solution is a system that has worked well (especially for operators!) in his own industry; where text messages are bought cheaply in bulk by intermediaries and the consumer doesn't get involved. Under this scenario, content providers would buy data in bulk to deliver services to the consumer. This would provide a service that appears to be free on delivery to the consumer and at the same time wouldn't shut out the entrepreneurial activities of small "bedroom" content generators.If this doesn't work we will have to wait for a fresh solution. What is not an option is for the present disgraceful charging system to continue. It is grossly unfair on consumers and could stymie the growth potential of a new industry. Until someone finds a solution, consumers should ignore such open-ended services unless they have a Wi-Fi phone or are on an all-you-can-eat tariff. It may need the threat of a consumer strike to force the industry to find a solution.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Online games are flooded with terrorists, trying to steal your money and your innocence. Or so the popular press says. A couple of weeks ago, the Fraud Advisory Panel warned that virtual communities are at risk from being used for money-laundering and recommended that the government dive headlong into worlds populated by orcs with magical swords of &uuml;berness to root out the evil.Virtual environments have been a curiosity for years, but now that everyone including your mum is on MySpace, it's time to focus on the potential threats.This isn't the first time there's been an official look at these worlds: last year, the US Joint Economic Commission mooted taxing the incomes of gamers who buy and sell digital goods. But this is the first time anyone's suggested that a western government look for threats. So what are we up against?First claim: that terrorists are using these spaces to transfer funds. Yes, the economies of online games are startling, but the exchange rates of the in-world currencies to the US dollar are so ridiculously infinitesimal that it would be extremely difficult to hide the preposterously large number of Platinum Pieces it would take to make any kind of impressions on the bank accounts of so-called terrorists.Also, it's in the interest of virtual-world companies to track the economic activities of their games: most developers get a fractional kickback from every transaction. These are not unregulated spaces, as is often claimed. Any kind of irregular activity would not be difficult to trace.Second claim: terrorists are recruiting in virtual worlds. Why would they do this in online games, where the majority of time chatting is spent trying to organise raids against dragons? Nic Ducheneaut and Bob Moore at the Palo Alto Research Centre looked at several days of incidental chat in Star Wars Galaxies a few years ago and said that not a single thing of any real-world importance was said. These aren't conducive places for plotting against anything other than digital foes.They're not private spaces, either. If someone wanted to recruit for a nefarious organisation, they'd be better off building their own worlds and running campaigns there instead. But that's an awful lot of work when there is already email, instant messaging and forums.The reality? Virtual worlds are part of the modern digital communication landscape. Taking a closer look at any of these spaces doesn't harm anyone. But if they do find any evidence of terrorist activity in World of Warcraft, I promise I'll eat my keyboard.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The soap opera plotline concerning the "ownership" of postal addresses has taken another twist. According to leaked letters seen by the Guardian, the latest set of negotiations between government-owned agencies over payment for address data has broken down.The saga provides a graphic example of an issue at the heart of Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign - the bureaucracy and waste that ensue when state bodies treat vital data as an asset that must be made directly profitable.The lifecycle of 23 Acacia Avenue - and every other postal address - begins with the local council, which is responsible for assigning a street name and number to new properties. Other government-owned agencies then draw on this information for their own purposes, including the creation of proprietary databases of addresses. If councils later want to use such databases, they must pay for the right - even if they provided the original data.Arguments over the rights of one arm of the state to use another arm's address database have soaked up much government time and money over the past five years. The current row is over a database of postcodes, the Postcode Address File, run by Royal Mail.This is profitable, making &pound;1.58m on revenues of &pound;18.36m in 2005-06 (Royal Mail's postcode database reveals its profitable side, April 26). Councils in England and Wales spend about &pound;2.5m a year on postcodes (paid to Ordnance Survey and commercial businesses, as well as Royal Mail).After protests last year over price rises, Royal Mail said that it would consider "reasonable remuneration" to local authorities supplying data on new addresses. But negotiations on the terms have foundered over intellectual property rights.A body representing councils in England and Wales, the Improvement and Development Agency, proposed to supply Royal Mail with a single feed of data from a centralised database, the National Land and Property Gazetteer. This receives data from almost every local authority in England and Wales (with the notable exception of Birmingham).Royal Mail was apparently receptive to the idea - until it saw the proposed terms. A letter seen by the Guardian from Jennie Longden, head of Royal Mail's address management unit, describes the terms as "unworkable".One example, according to the letter, is the requirement that the agency retain control over Royal Mail's use of data after incorporation into the postcode file. "This is not practical or possible," she wrote. "Royal Mail does not see the value at this stage in exploring any further the terms and conditions on which it intends to license such a dataset." Instead, Royal Mail would negotiate terms directly with local authorities.This proposal appears to have alarmed the agency, which warned councils that, while a direct payment might be attractive in the short term, it would not ensure that local government gets a "fair and reasonable return" on its investment in gazetteers. Steven Brandwood, the agency's head of geographical information, said this week that it is not trying to stop councils doing deals with Royal Mail, but setting out the arguments.He denied that the proposed terms were unusual or onerous: "We were always prepared to be flexible." Providing data through a single "hub", he said, would be cheaper for Royal Mail. "Local government provides this information of value, so local government should get some revenue stream from it."It would be a "complete nonsense" for Royal Mail to negotiate individually with hundreds of local authorities, Brandwood said. Nonetheless, this appears to be its intention. In her letter Longden says: "Royal Mail would like to commence paying the local authorities for this data as soon as possible." Royal Mail assured the Guardian last month that it was "confident of a successful outcome". This week it said it was "finalising proposals for a framework contract to offer all councils".This ludicrous position is a result of conflicting responsibilities placed on state-owned bodies. As a commercial (albeit state-owned) enterprise, Royal Mail has to make its assets pay, and that includes a national resource such as postcodes. Local authorities are being squeezed by council-tax caps and efficiency targets; selling data is thus a rare new source of income. The agency, meanwhile, wants to ensure the future of the National Land and Property Gazetteer, which it sees as a vital tool for modernisation. Its commercial contractor, Intelligent Addressing, is embroiled in a separate dispute with Ordnance Survey over addressing data.The Free Our Data campaign proposes that all public bodies to free up their address databases, funded from central taxation. We're not alone. A petition at petitions.pm.gov.uk urging the prime minister "to end the address dispute between local government, Royal Mail and Ordnance Survey" has 370 signatures.&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Twitterer or just a twit?Times change (Member of the Twittering classes, May 17). Who would have put money on a story about a high profile politician openly bragging about how much he twitters on?katieledger.blogspot.comDownload and be damnedLaura Marcus seems to think it's "either/or" with respect to paying for music (Technobile, May 17). Is it? If iTunes can offer the songs I love and value, I'm happy to pay. But if it can't or I'm upgrading worn-out media I bought years ago, then I will download it from P2P, albeit with a guilty conscience.Eleanor WildeCullomptonIn the dock of the eBayBidding fraud is rife on Ebay and they seem reluctant to do anything about it (Dismay at eBay's unsatisfactory response, May 17). Unfortunately, until they get some competition there's no incentive for them to.Kim AldisLondon&middot;It's hard to have any sympathy with Lucy who was "suspecting a tout trying to corner the market", when, by attempting to sell tickets at above face value, she was in fact guilty of ticket touting herself.Steve MillerNorthampton&middot;Exactly the same thing happened to me when selling a car three weeks ago. Ebay's response was the same. Its email system is final and it is obvious that its operators work from scripts to build a reply which never answers the question you put to them.David CornforthExeterWho needs a keyboard?What on earth is the point of a miniature Qwerty keyboard on a device to be held in one hand (Gadgets, May 17)? The present obsession with cramming more and more functions into as small an item is possible seems to be the product of a sales department's lurid dream.Derek RoughtonOvinghamDig deeper in OrePlease remember that in Operation Ore the name, address and credit card number did not have to even match for them to obtain a search warrant (Newly asked questions, May 17). When we found out the basis of the warrant was supposedly an Amex card in 1999, I literally spewed coffee out of my nose - my husband's credit rating is so bad that no one would ever give him an Amex card. We even went so far as to get a letter from Amex stating that he had never had a card, never applied for one and they had never heard from him. The response of the police and CPS? "Ah well, the thing is, the address used was his address AT SOME POINT - not necessarily on the dates on the database and well, the password used on Landslide is the same password found on your computer so he must be guilty."Doesn't that sound like excellent police and detective work?Name and address suppliedIt's the Nokia, not GPSVic Keegan's criticism of GPS seems a little bit unfair (GPS will be great - once it works, May 17). He fails to mention that the Nokia N95 uses a much older SIRF II chipset as opposed to the newer and more sensitive SIRF III. Also, the distance for your nearest restaurant and one-way systems are related to the software you use (the Nokia uses its own) rather than the capabilites of the Global Positioning System.Simon CorbettNorthamptonMost radio sucksThe problem with radio in the UK has nothing to do with the technology used to receive and transmit it (Ofcom is still clueless, May 10). It is that, BBC radio aside, it's utter crap. We need better content and more competition, not a new way to listen to tripe.John E DunnAssociate editor, Techworld, London
The Moscow theatre siege of October 2002 was fated to end badly. A group of militants demanding Russia's withdrawal from Chechnya invaded the theatre, taking more than 850 hostages. They threatened to blow everyone up; negotiation brought little benefit, apart from the release of some children. Abruptly, as the siege was entering its third day, the Russian secret service pumped a mysterious gas into the theatre, intending to knock out the militants.It worked - too well. Though 750 hostages were saved, more than 100 died and hundreds more had serious after-effects including deafness and amnesia. The "non-lethal" weapon had proved lethal, with a death toll of 13%. By contrast, with battlefield weapons the overall expected death rate is just 1 in 16, or 6.25%.Deaths and disabilitiesSome of the deaths and disabilities arose because doctors on hand outside to help the hostages as they were brought out did not know precisely what drug had been used. Although the best reckoning now is that it was some form of fentanyl - used widely as a general anaesthetic - only the Russian authorities know. The details have never been published.The use of that chemical weapon in peacetime could be justified by Russia, which is a signatory to the Chemical Weapons Convention, as being for "domestic law enforcement" - an allowed exemption.But it raises important questions for doctors as governments become more interested in the use of chemically and biologically active substances for such enforcement. If such a situation were to arise in Britain, should doctors called to the scene before gas was used cooperate with the authorities? The answer isn't as simple as it seems.Today the British Medical Association (BMA) will release a report on the use of drugs as weapons, marking the third time it has examined the militarisation of medicine and its potential for waging a new form of warfare. The subject has been an issue for at least a decade, but its highly technical nature has kept it out of the public eye.Meanwhile, military interest in incapacitating biochemical weapons has grown, as the capabilities of pharmaceutical companies have been transformed by developments such as the unravelling of the genome. What once were seen as distinct chemical and biological processes - the function of the lungs or the brain - can now be targeted with increasing precision.Molecules can be engineered to target processes such as nerve and cardiovascular function. New agents can be designed to act as delivery mechanisms, while not themselves causing disease. New variants can be explored via a mixture of combinational chemistry (which can enable high-capacity screening for thousands of potential functional chemical groups), knowledge of gene structures, microarrays that can be used for rapid testing on DNA examples, artificial intelligence predictions of toxicity, directed evolution, information about what proteins a gene codes for, bioinformatics and computer modelling of chemical receptor structures.These developments represent magnificent possibilities for curing disease - but they also facilitate new possibilities for weapons that induce paralysis, fear, pain and subjugation.The convention does not permit the use of riot agents for waging war. However, "law enforcement" is undefined; and the role of incapacitating agents as counter-terror weapons has opened up a significant loophole. That is being exploited by the fast-expanding field of "non-lethal weapons" - especially in the US, via the Joint Non-Lethal Weapons Directorate at the US Marine Corps' Quantico base, where incapacitating chemicals are presented as humane weapons. Drug syringes that can be fired like bullets, most often used for animal control, are now available in the commercial sector as narcotics guns.However, as the Moscow siege showed, one person's tranquillisation is another's lethal dose. Yet much larger devices for mass delivery of chemical agents are being prepared, including mortars. There's no way to conceive of that as riot control.The BMA argues that the role of doctors is to save life, and medical practioners involved in formulating new "calmative-style weapons" are breaching their Hippocratic oath. It is an important point, since once the reluctance to use such biochemical weapons for counter- terrorist or counter-insurgency operations is breached, there will be a rapid evolution of new variants with a wide range of immobilising and pain-inducing effects.Military researchers are already interested in Endothelin, a protein similar to certain snake venoms, and substance P, a "tachykinin" which can cause intense constriction of the smooth muscle surrounding the lungs. One US study has identified nine different types of neurotransmitter/receptor systems and other classes of compounds including convulsives. Spray them into a crowd, and people would fight for breath - but how could you be sure that there weren't asthmatics in that crowd who could die?In Britain, the development of law-enforcement chemicals is ostensibly guided by the Himsworth Committee principles, which say riot chemicals should be treated more like drugs than weapons, with full publication of results in scientific journals prior to authorisation. So a British doctor called to a siege where knockout gas was proposed as a solution should, in theory, be able to refer to published medical literature. But will that principle hold elsewhere? Some countries could treat such chemicals as not requiring clinical trials. And if such trials were ever performed, how could the testing against the old, sick or children ever be permitted by a medical ethics committee? Or would it be outsourced to a country less concerned about such niceties for a suitable price?There are already some cracks in medics' ethical wall. At the Jane's 2005 Conference Less Lethal Weapons Conference in Leeds, Dr Jitka Schreiberova, chief anaesthetist in the department of neurosurgery at Charles University in Prague, discussed her work on transforming anaesthetics into weapons, and her experience of human testing. We can expect more researchers to follow unless strict ethical limits are set. Otherwise, the convention on chemical weapons will be eroded.Private dangersFurthermore, the rise of private military companies could pass these technologies to the private sector. Who will regulate them then? However, any use of such "non-lethal" substances even by the authorities could still create problems. In September 2004, pro-Chechen rebels took more than 1,200 children and adults hostage in Beslan. One of their first acts was to shoot out the windows and set up tripwires linked to explosives, to guard against a gas attack. In the gun battle that ensued, more than 340 were killed and hundreds more wounded. It's hard to say that the "non-lethal" weapons of two years earlier had saved any lives at all.&#183;Steve Wright is a Reader at the Praxis Centre, Leeds Metropolitan University&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Dinosaurs trudging through mudflats more than 65m years ago in what is now northern Spain left evidence - in the form of fossilised footprints - of the changing environmental conditions on Earth just before their extinction.But for the past two decades, scientists have gazed with increasing frustration at those potentially informative fossil details, because their location is high up on the side of a Catalonian coalmine."The footprints were exposed 15 to 20 years ago by open-cast coalmining, but you can't climb up and reach them as you would risk damaging the surfaces," explains Dr Phil Manning of the School of Earth, Atmospheric and Environmental Sciences at the University of Manchester. The tracks are so fragile that any attempt to physically get to them, from above or below, could crumble them into dust.Time was running out to study the footprints, which were gradually being eroded by extremes of heat and cold of the Catalonian climate, until Manning came up with a novel solution: "To quote Blackadder," he says, "I had a cunning plan."He had observed the long-range infrared laser scanners used by fellow researchers in the petroleum study group. With this technology, they mapped the three-dimensional shape of rocks that could contain oil.Manning decided that the only way to make a permanent record of the footprints was to make 3-D digital maps of them. This technique has been used by researchers at the University of Bournemouth to document early human footprints in Mexico, and is being developed to help police in forensic cases. But this was the first time that infrared laser scanning had been used on dinosaur tracks."A footprint is essentially 3-D object and if you only treat it in two dimensions then you are throwing away huge amounts of information," says Professor Matthew Bennett of the University of Bournemouth. "3-D scans are telling you a huge amount about locomotion and the way in which a dinosaur or a human is moving."Manning's group used a Lidar (light detection and range) laser scanner. This captures readings, cross-references them with images from a digital camera and differential GPS, then feeds them into a computer to create 3-D full-colour models of the mountain face. "This is cold, hard science, recorded in glorious 3-D," says Manning. "And what we do in two weeks would take two years normally."Tracks are more reliable sources of evidence for dinosaur activity than bones, as they cannot be moved. These particular footprints were made probably by sauropods, the largest dinosaurs, on a horizontal mudflat in the late Cretaceous period, which was pushed up into a mountainous surface by tectonic plate activity.Fresh from his success in Spain, Manning is now trying to find the first documented footprints of the elusive Tyrannosaurus Rex in Hell Creek in the US. That might tell us more about the creature, such as its speed and gait.So has he had any success there? Manning is coy: "We have some good things coming up. Watch this space."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Which PC suits me?I want to replace my desktop PC, but can't decide if a laptop, docking station and wireless router would be better. I would like to be able to download films/programmes to watch on TV. What sort of spec I should be looking for?Mike BertenshawJS: A desktop PC provides more computer power, a better screen and usually a better keyboard than a laptop, and still costs a lot less. If you are a heavy user, ergonomics factors also mean a desktop should be better for your health.The arguments for buying a notebook are generally based on convenience and not having to devote space to it. It could also make it easier to watch movies with your wife, as you won't have to burn them to disc.However, if your desktop PC is in your living room, a Vista Home Premium system can double as a reasonable entertainment system. It includes the multimedia features that used to be in Windows Media Centre PCs, and can be operated using a remote control. If fitted with a TV tuner, it can also record and replay TV programmes. When it comes to specification, any current machine will do what you need. However, you should make sure you get at least 1GB of memory: at today's prices, 2GB makes economic sense. If running Windows Vista, you will get better performance if the system has a graphics card with 128MB or preferably 256MB of dedicated memory, and does not share memory with the processor. Unfortunately, this eliminates the cheaper desktop PCs and a large proportion of notebooks. Unless you are running fast-action games or doing heavyweight graphics, you may not care. Either way, I'd still aim for a notebook that scores more than 3.0 on the Windows Experience Index, or a desktop that scores 4.0 or more (go toshareyourscore.com).USB or not USB?Given a choice of USB or PS2 mouse, is there anything to choose between them?Walt O'DowdJS:USB was supposed to kill off old-style mouse, keyboard and printer ports. However, mice generally come with both PS2 and USB connectors, so I still use the PS2 option when it's available. I've found PS2 extremely reliable - unlike USB - and at worst, it can free up a USB port for something else.Registry fixersI tried a registry cleaner and it came up with 10,021 errors. As it was a tryout, it offered to fix six errors. In alarm, I subscribed in order to fix the rest.Wilson John HaireJS:This is a common technique, but I would advise against paying up. There's no guarantee that the "errors" are meaningful, if they even exist. There is no guarantee that fixing them will bring any improvements, and some chance that the cleaner will do more harm than good. I only use CCleaner (a href="http://ccleaner.com"&gt;ccleaner.com), which is free. TweakNow RegCleaner (tweaknow.com/RegCleaner.html) is more specialised, and free for personal use. Try not to pay for one.Pretty good privacyColumnist Seth Finkelstein mentioned Pretty Good Privacy (PGP). Can you explain how this works?Geoff RenshawJS:PGP has two uses. First, it is an encryption system that uses public-key cryptography. Each user has a public key and a private key. In simple terms, you can encrypt a message using someone's public key and they can decrypt it using their private key. If the private key has been kept truly private, no one else can read the message.More commonly, PGP is used to create a digital signature based on the contents of an email. This enables the recipient to verify that the message has not been changed, using the sender's public key. However, there are simpler approaches. If you want to email someone a confidential document, you can compress and password-protect it using an archiving program such as RAR (eg WinRAR) or Zip, then send the recipient the password in a text message.Web deniedI keep getting a message: "HTTP Error 403.6 - Forbidden: IP address of the client has been rejected. Internet Information Services (IIS)."PBK SuppliesJS:Someone is using Microsoft's IIS web server software - probably an-out-of date version - and blocking access to some IP addresses. You probably don't have a blocked address. However, every time someone hits the website, IIS has to do a reverse DNS lookup on the address. If it can't handle the DNS, or the lookup fails for some reason, then obviously it must reject you. See Microsoft Knowledge Base article 227943 for details. Try not to take it personally.Backchat&middot;Daggi Kr&ouml;schel-Willis wanted an outbox for Thunderbird. Paul Beam says the "MagicSLR add-on will allow you to customise your Thunderbird compose window to include a Send Later button, among other things. Seeaddons.mozilla.org/en-US/thunderbird/addons/previews/902for details." Brian Marsden adds: "Thunderbird doesn't have an outbox, but does have an Unsent folder. After composing a message, select File | Send Later from the Compose menu, rather than the Send button. (Unfortunately there's no button for send later, which is why it's so easily missed.) The message then gets put in the unsent folder. To send it, go to the main menu and select File | Send Unsent Messages."
Spider-Man 3Xbox 360/PS3/PS2, &pound;39.99, cert 12+Treyarch/Activision, 2/5New York to explore, crimes to solve, swinging to be done - Spider-Man 3 should be a classic. Unfortunately, the clunky combat, aged graphics and jarring lack of consistency ruin the fun. It starts well enough. Players get a choice of where to go and what to do, and climbing skyscrapers is amusing. The actual swinging around is also fun, especially when you get into a rhythm. But the combat, which forms the basis for many of the missions, is a tedious exercise in button-bashing. However, this brain disengagement is preferable to the fighting later in the game which suddenly ups the difficulty level and sucks any remaining fun from the proceedings. Fans of the film will get some enjoyment from working through the storyline, but too much of the game feels rushed.Greg HowsonTomb Raider: AnniversaryPS2/PC, &pound;39.99, cert 12+Crystal Dynamics/Eidos, 4/5It's 10 years since Lara burst on to the original PlayStation, and Eidos has chosen to commemorate that impressive milestone with a remake of the original Tomb Raider (still considered the best game) using modern technology. An exercise that could be construed as cynical but, happily, such thoughts vanish when you get stuck in. A remake it may be, but Tomb Raider: Anniversary cleverly avoids slavishness, picking out the best bits - such as the Peruvian Lost World sequence with its T-Rex boss battle and some truly epic puzzles - giving you a Lara who has evolved to be much less fiddly to control, and cloaking it all in excellent graphics. Lara has acquired a couple of new moves: the ability to scramble upwards from ledge to ledge and to grapple hooks then run along walls, Prince of Persia-style. The gameplay elements acquired in recent years, such as the (somewhat tedious) reactive button-hitting during cut-scenes, are also present. But mostly this is about classic, immersive Tomb Raider gameplay, with puzzles that are very involving but never too obtuse. You'll have to wait a week for it to hit the shops, but it is good enough turn a whole new generation on to Lara's charms.Steve BoxerSBK-07PS2, &pound;29.99, cert 3+Black Bean, 3/5Being a big fan of bike games, I was looking forward to SBK-07 - and for the first 10 minutes, I stayed happy. On the plus side, control is excellent, making power slides and aggressive driving almost second nature. Crashes suspend all laws of physics but look amazing, especially when one of your slides pulls down half the field. However, a confusing front end and horrendous loading times make it frustrating to play. And despite boasting the official licence, more is made of anonymous racing "babes" than star-name drivers. Despite being great fun to play, SBK-07 is a largely wasted opportunity.Mike Anderiesz&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
No. Or if it is, you will already have noticed. However, the question has been raised by a couple of MacBook users in the US. They have launched a class action lawsuit against Apple, alleging that it has misrepresented the capabilities of the screens of its notebooks.The lawsuit claims that Apple has promoted MacBooks by saying that they display "millions of colours", and that users can "enjoy a nuanced view simply unavailable on other portables". But some buyers were disappointed. The main complaint was a graininess or "sparkly" effect, but problems included uneven lighting, colour banding and inaccurate colour gradients.It turns out that Apple has used 6-bit display screens that can only display 256K of colours - 262,144 to be precise - not the claimed 16.7m. The "millions of colours" are achieved by dithering, which means rapidly switching some pixels between colours. This, it is thought, may produce the "sparkly" effect.But things are not necessarily that simple. Most, if not all, similarly sized portables use 6-bit screens just like Apple's, and many of them are sourced from the same suppliers. But according to users quoted in the lawsuit, portable PC screens generally don't suffer from the same problems.But "here's the irony", said one. "If I boot into [Windows] XP using Boot Camp, the dithering and banding and noise goes away. The screens look beautiful in XP."Part of the problem is that some MacBook Pro buyers are photographers, picture editors or otherwise employed in the creative industries. For them, better accuracy and colour control has long been an important reason for preferring Macs to Windows PCs. And if they've shelled out for a MacBook Pro to run Apple's Aperture, aimed at professional photographers, you can understand them getting upset.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Philips has changed the modern world at least twice: first with the compact cassette tape, unveiled in 1963, then with compact disc, launched with Sony in 1982. Both became ubiquitous. "Isn't it about time for another world-beating innovation?" I ask Rudy Provoost, chief executive of Philips Electronics. A lively and engaging character, he laughs out loud. "You're putting the bar very high, you know!" But this is no longer the age of technological innovation. Philips is now "a lifestyle business", he says."The top 1,000 companies spent $600bn (&pound;300bn) on innovation in 2006, and 97% of them said they had too many projects where the ROI [return on investment] wasn't that good," says Provoost."Technological invention doesn't mean that something creates value in the marketplace, and that's what I want to do. Over the past few years, we've been able to transform Philips Electronics into more of a design-driven business rather than the technological powerhouse it was in the past.Consumer experience"There's only one answer to commoditisation, and that's innovation, but not in adding more features. Consumer electronics has been too much electronics and not enough consumer. I'm in the consumer experience business. It's all about offering consumers great experiences, rather than the 'tech &amp; spec' game. Philips is now a very different company in that sense."It's the passing of an era. Philips was founded by Gerard Philips in the Netherlands in 1891, and manufactured light bulbs and vacuum tubes. As it expanded, it added a vast array of products including radios, tape recorders, hi-fis and TV sets, fridges and Whirlpool washing machines, the famous Philishave electric razor, hairdryers, electric toothbrushes, coffeemakers, home and mobile phones and many other things besides.Not all Philips' ideas were successful. Its stumbles included the 12-inch videodisc, unveiled in 1972; the Video 2000 tape system, CD-i (Compact Disc Interactive) and DCC (Digital Compact Cassette). It also had a go as a PC manufacturer, and for many years had a world-class chip fab. As the electronics industries were taken over first by the Americans, then by the Japanese and most recently by the Chinese, Philips hung in there.However, "we wrote the last chapter in the electronics book last year when we divested the chip business", says Provost. That now operates as NXP Semiconductors. And Philips has been restructured into four core divisions based on consumer electronics, domestic appliances and personal care, lighting and professional medical systems.Provoost, who took over the &pound;7bn Philips Electronics in 2004, says he has also narrowed it down to concentrate on "five distinct areas of competence". The biggest business is displays, which includes monitors and Ambilight TV sets - "more than 1m sold", he boasts. Another focuses on home networks, including set-top boxes and Dect phones.Philips still wants to sell you stuff, but the process has been turned on its head. The business is now U-shaped, explains Provoost, with the key areas being design (at the start of the product cycle) and sales and marketing (at the end). The bulk that used to be in the middle - manufacturing, logistics, servicing - is being outsourced, and globally it is being taken over by the Chinese. Philips' slogan reflects the new reality: it's no longer "Let's make things better" but "Sense and Simplicity".An illustration of the new Philips is its range of Swarovski crystal products, which include boring old USB memory sticks designed into fancy jewellery. One example is a glittering heart-shaped 1GB HeartBeat you can wear round your neck. There are also several earphones that could go with a ball gown. All these are, I'm assured, designed by women for women. They will soon go on sale at Colette's boutique in Paris."You cannot be a lifestyle business if you don't have the fashion component," says Provoost. "If you think of it from a consumer point of view, it's about product design and brand fit - we did a lot of work with Swarovski to understand their brand claim, Poetry of Precision. I now have a chief design officer reporting directly to me, because design is the bridge between invention and innovation. That's where you differentiate."For example, everybody has access to flat-panel LCD or plasma screens so there's a level playing field there. The difference has to come from the application and the design around the application. That's what we're focusing on now. It's not just a matter of visual style, it's the interactive brand language."You should be able to see it's a Philips design even if the brand name is not on it. It has to permeate through user interfaces, the packaging, the online experience. We have to create the Philips experience at every touch point with the consumer."It sounds like Apple, I say, except Apple has proprietary technology to deflect competition."I'm not discounting the importance of IP [intellectual property]," says Provoost. "We still spend &euro;1.6bn (&pound;1bn) on R&amp;D, which is 7% of sales. It's not necessarily visible to the consumer, but the IP is definitely there. But IP by itself is not going to make it. If you can't wrap it in great design and offer a user experience where people say 'Wow, this is fantastic,' then you will never be able to get the value out of your innovation."All this sounds wonderful, if somewhat decadent, but I wonder how long it will last. I argue that the very high volume and rising quality of science and technology education in China, India and Korea, along with its rapidly declining volume and quality in Europe, mean we can probably assume that IP creation - both invention and innovation - will follow manufacturing to the east. Especially as these will also be the high-growth markets."I agree," says Provoost. "So we've invested in innovation centres in the far east. We have a software lab in Bangalore in India, for example, and we're establishing a centre near Beijing. We've put the emerging markets very high on our agenda, and you have to do that to have a chance to be successful. But Philips has been a global player since day one. That's part of our DNA. But you still need to turn [innovations] into great consumer experiences.Emerging markets"We know we have to succeed in the emerging markets, the famous BRICA (Brazil, Russia, India, China, Asean). We realise the power of these emerging markets in terms of brainpower, as very large consumer markets, and how crucial they are in building ecosystems that make your value chain work better. A lot of work is happening right now."Philips certainly knows the value of global markets, having sold more than 500m shavers. It remains to be seen whether a design-driven Philips can be as successful in building new businesses as it performs what Provoost calls its "180-degree shift". A U-turn? Europeans, at least, should hope so.Curriculum vitaeBorn:1959.Education:Degrees in psychology and business administration, University of Ghent.Career: 1983-84Military service as an officer in the Medical Services Division.1984-87Management systems, Procter &amp; Gamble Benelux.1987-92Canon Belgium.1992-2000Whirlpool Belgium.2000Philips, becoming chief executive in 2004.2006Appointed a member of the Philips board of management.Family:Married, three children.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Ah, the news will never be better! Microsoft has at last uncoiled itself to unleash a solution to help us poor souls who use older versions of Microsoft Office (or don't use Office at all) read files created with its new washes-cleaner-AND-brighter Office 2007 format.You know - Office 2007. The one which has all the adverts saying: "Today will not be like yesterday." Certainly it won't, because yesterday, when you were using the same old version of Office as all your friends in other companies, they didn't send you emails saying: "Could you resave this in an Office format, because Windows doesn't recognise this .docx format."Yes, .docx. The XML Word document format. Or something. Microsoft created it, and only Microsoft knows how to turn it into a common-or-garden .doc format. Well, Microsoft and about a gazillion other people out there on the web, who have had time since the format was unveiled in mid 2006 to pick apart the bundles they were sent, and discovered that a fairly normal .doc version lives inside one of folders inside the bundle. But shhh! Don't tell anyone!People have also thus had time to create applications that would extract the useable-by-all doc format. I tried a few of them, such as docXConverter, a neat little 5MB application.And in all of this, where was Microsoft? Where was its answer to the problem that it had created and which, one would have thought, it should have a slight clue about solving? Where, in short, was Microsoft's converter?You can see that there might have been some internal conflict in Redmond: do you release a product that will translate the new format, essentially hobbling the reason for upgrading? Or do you let the people who've upgraded sail on alone, sending out documents in their new format and getting grumpy responses from people who haven't upgraded? Either way, someone loses.So the software giant has, slightly uncharacteristically, come up with the perfect solution. Here's how it works.Last week I noticed a blog posting that said: "Microsoft releases Word 2007 'docx' file converter." About time, I thought. (Though it won't touch the new 2007 Powerpoint and Excel formats; converters for those are coming later this summer.) I followed the link, hit the download button ...Thump. It's a 25MB download. And it's an application in its own right which demands that you let it install itself. Will it tell me what files it's going to install where first? Does it have a Read Me? No and no. "The software requires administrator or higher privileges," it sniffed when I demurred at its demand for my password.Do I trust Microsoft to know where stuff should be installed better than I do? Well, I should, but for some reason I don't, because - and you can call me retentive - I like to feel that programs get on to my computer at my invitation, rather than barging past me into the living room and demanding to know where the drinks are.So Microsoft has the perfect solution: a converter I'm unwilling to use. Genius.And in the meantime, if you send me a document in .docx format, I'll probably email you back. Guess what I'll say?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Ian Bogost of political game developer Persuasive Games has beenwriting abouthis excitement at a deal struck with the online edition of the New York Times. The site will be regularly running the studio's games in its opinion section, starting withFood Import Follywhich looks into the work of the hopelessly overstretchedFDAas it attempts to manage food imports into the United States."This is news/editorial in videogame form, rather than videogames trying to make news fun," says Bogost. In this sense his games have become a new form of political cartoon, ostensibly entertaining, but carrying underlying comment and insight into major issues. Food Import Folly was developed in just a week - an incredible turnaround, but a necessary one if Persuasive Games are going to effectively comment on news events.It's an interesting development - I wonder if my employers at this paper have taken note?
Thereviewsare in technology this week. Spider-Man 3 gets a deserved slating - by me - but Tomb Raider Anniversary gets a deserved 4 stars and is up there with Crackdown as my most pleasant gaming surprise of 2007 (so far).
UPDATE: This problem has now been fixed, and appeared to be a problem with the way Twittervision interacted with the main site. More at thebottom of this post.Twitter, the popular messaging site which has gained traction among the technorati, has come in for plenty of criticism for downtime, bugs and trouble keeping up with the volume of users signing up.But its latest problem takes things beyond the merely irritating and into the realm of dangerous - by undermining user privacy.Users of the site are able to make their profiles and messages private via the website, preventing unwanted eyes from being able to monitor or see what's being said. But unfortunately a glitchin the Twitter API - which is used to let third-party applications mash up Twitter data -has left "private" users looking very exposed indeed.First spotted by colleagueMeg, the hole is obvious if you look atsites built on Twitter's platform, such asthe popularTwittervision, which pins messages onto a map in real time. Private user information is visible on Twittervision's many user pages, which are built from the information extracted from the API.Right now this might seem like only a minor bug. But consider this: Twittervision's pages are indexed by the search engines, meaning that messages that users may have sent privately between friends are now not only visible on the web - they are also potentially searchable forever.I have tried to contact Twitter's team, who are based in California, to point out the issue to them and try to find out what's gone wrong - but as yet have had no response (it's currently 7am Pacific time)However, I have had contact withDave Troywho runs Twittervision (which is not related to Twitter in any direct way). In an email he told me that he was looking into the issue but that he didn't believe it was a major issue:"For what it is worth, the number of people who participate in something like Twitter who also opt to keep updates private is a pretty small percentage, and you are the first person to bring this up to me," he said. "If this were a widespread concern I would have heard about it from others by now."However, at the point of writing this, Twittervision seemed to have stopped pulling feeds from the main site.UPDATE:I received an initial reply from Biz Stone at Twitter, who said he wasn't aware of the problem - but now (6.20pm London time) it seems to have been fixed; and Twittervision seems to be rebuilding pages to remove private messages that had previously been on display. However, de-privatised entries are still showing up in the caches of search engines.UPDATE:The problem is now fixed;Twitter says it wasn't an actual API problem, but one that resulted from users having to give their ID and password to Twittervision. I'm still trying to get more information on exactly how this came about, but have made some alterations to the post to reflect the latest data.UPDATE:It turns out that basically your information wasn't private if any one of your friends had given their details to Twittervision; effectively it was able to go and read private data you'd been given access to, and then build separate user pages for those people. Dave Troy responds: "There was no "glitch" in Twitter's API (outside of the scaling issues we've all witnessed) but rather in the cumulative interaction between our system and theirs." I've now changed the headline from "Twitter glitch leaves 'private' users exposed to the world' to the current version.The number of affected people is apparently small, but it's the principle here rather than the definite impact.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
"It's finally here. Later today, Dell will offer U.S customers three different systems with Ubuntu 7.04 installed: the XPS 410n and Dimension E520n desktops and the Inspiron E1505n notebook. These systems will be available at www.dell.com/open by 4pm CST today. Starting price for the E520n desktop and the E1505n notebook is $599; the XPS 410n starts at $899," saysthe Dell blog.Note: these system prices do not include any software support, apart from community forums. However, Dell says: "Users also have fee-based options for operating system support through Canonical, including 30-day Get Started, One-year Basic and One-year Standard."
I'm puzzled why there has not been more of an outcry over the TKX credit card theft. It is the largest and best-organised theft of credit card numbers that has ever come to light. The company involved, the big American retailer that owns TK Maxx, has released as little information as possible, as slowly as it can. But the Wall Street Journal last month made clear that something between 47.5m and 200m credit card numbers were stolen by a sophisticated crime ring of Romanian hackers and Russian mafia.What is really frightening about the break-in is that it worked because the company was using the same technology that you or I use when we connect to a wireless network. My normal reaction to the news that someone has broken an encryption system is sane indifference. I have no secrets that would be interesting to the sort of people who can crack really serious encryption. I don't, for example, encrypt my wireless network at home, though I do restrict access to the family laptops. But anyone who really wanted to could sit across the road with a laptop and read everything that was transmitted over the wireless network in my house.This is more or less how the TKX hackers started. They sat in the parking lot of a mall and eavesdropped on the wireless traffic within the shop beyond. You might not think of large shops as hubs of Wi-Fi activity, but they are. How else does the magic box into which a waiter shoves your credit card at the end of a meal check that you can really afford it? How else does the magic wand that reads prices from barcodes work its magic? All this wireless traffic is encrypted, of course, but in the case of TKX, it was encrypted using the old, weak, WEP standard - which is almost certainly what you are using at home.Once the hackers had collected enough data from low-level activity to break the WEP cypher being used by a store, they could then listen in to all its traffic with the main data warehouses, and pick from that stream user names and passwords, which let them log in as trusted employees.From there they were able eventually to gain access to every credit card number on the system - including several million held at a data store in England. By this stage, they were using ordinary home computers as their launchpads, which had been taken over through the internet by spyware. None of them seems so far to have been caught.The criminals who were caught, and whose capture led to the discovery of the theft, were some of those to whom the original hackers had sold the credit card details. Their methods, too, were pretty sophisticated. Instead of buying things with the stolen credit cards, they bought gift certificates, which could later be exchanged for saleable goods. In this way, one gang stole $8m (&pound;4m) from Wal-Mart in a couple of months last year. Among their first victims were refugees from Hurricane Katrina - TK Maxx, the biggest of TJX's brands, sells cheap clothing to the poor.The lawsuits arising from this will reverberate around the American system for years. But a couple of points are worth noting. The first is that in this kind of large-scale fraud there is nothing that the individual customer can do to protect themselves. I can ensure when online - or elsewhere - that I only give my credit card details to the people who ought to have them. I cannot ensure that they will look after them properly. If anything, I would expect online retailers to be more conscientious than traditional shops.The second is that credit card details are far more profitable to steal than money. Money can be spent only once. A credit card number can be reused hundreds of times: one TKX victim found the Florida gang had bought $45,000 worth of Wal-Mart gift cards on her account. They bought them in $400 units, because the $500 ones required an explicit credit check.The third point is that a form of crime so profitable, and so safe if you are clever and careful, must only proliferate. Last week a group of German security researchers published a method that will enable any WEP key to be cracked in two minutes on an ordinary laptop. Have you checked your credit card bill lately?thewormbook.com/helmintholog&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Every week we receive far more letter and blog pingbacks than we have space for in the print version of letters and blogs. So here is the full text of those we chose from...TWITTEROdd for Linda Jones to write this long article on Twitter without the slightest indication of what Twitter is. Dave Cheseldine, Aberdeen&gt;&gt; This is where I think the lovely democratic potential of Web 2.0 often falls down. It can spread like lightening through people who are already linked in to it, but new services lack the marketing money or revenue shares to get into the places they need to be to be seen by Jo/e Punter - on the sides of London buses, or integrated into the phone networks' portals.http://www.johninnit.co.uk/2007/05/17/twits-4-johnson-4-deputy/&gt;&gt; Times change. Who would have put money on a story about a high profile politician openly bragging about how much he twitters on?http://katieledger.blogspot.com/2007/05/alan-all-twitter.htmlNICK CARR'S INFORMATION PLANTATIONS&gt;&gt; He's looking at global numbers. I suspect it's a little different if you look at different countries or regions. For instance, in China, the top search engine is Baidu, not Google. The whole orientation here is just ... different. Right now, I think most Westerners are suffering from a uniquely Western perspective when they consider the Internet. We're nestled in their high speed networks with content delivery networks to speed up things like video. We think that that is what the world is like. Sitting here in China, not really.http://budgibson.com/home/archives/2007/05/a_uniquely_western_perspective.html&gt;&gt; It is natural human behaviour to gravitate towards something that is popular and where the people you know are going. However at another level, I disagree, and perhaps that is just one man's world view. To me, the internet, whether it be search, social networks, or what have you, is a means of serendipitous and not so serendipitous discovery. When I am looking for information about, e.g. "systems biology", like everyone else, I check the top hits on google, but that is not the end.http://mndoci.com/blog/2007/05/17/the-big-get-bigger-but-there-is-so-much-more/&gt;&gt; Part of me sighs "It was ever thus!" The rest of me is too busy on the periphery. And if people want to live on an "information plantation", same as most of us like to live in cities, well, it's down to the pioneers on the periphery to run some interesting field trips.http://greenteaicecream.co.uk/2007/05/17/well-some-of-us-like-the-periphery/TECHNOBILE: AVOIDING THE PIRATESLaura Marcus seems to think it's a case of "either/or" with respect to paying for music. Is it? If iTunes can offer the songs I love and value, I'm happy to pay. But if they can't (and you'd be surprised how much iTunes doesn't have), or I'm upgrading worn-out media I bought years ago, then I will download it from P2P instead, albeit with a slightly guilty conscience. Eleanor Wilde, CullomptonWell as you might have imagined some of "cool kids" from that 'little pink site' do indeed read the Guardian. In fact your article was honoured with its own forum topic just hours after the paper went to print today! Anyway I basically felt like writing something of a response. Let me first state that I do not speak on behalf of that site in question, or any other community or its users. This is just what I think. I do not have a problem with using paid services to get music, and most people who do download music do not oppose the existence of paid-for music downloading either. But the thing is, you're kind of missing the point. I'll go through your article bit by bit which I hope doesn't seem to aggressive but just seems like the most logical thing to do: "watch free music pouring into your inbox" well if you're writing for the Technology supplement you realise this is more than just a bit silly. File sharing does not work over email or any other sort of personal messaging. Not a big deal but why not print the truth? Although I suppose it doesn't make that much difference to the general public who have no clue anyway. The eBay invite thing: Sure it seems a tad ironic at first, but you'll be extremely hard pushed to find file sharers who condone making profit off of other people's work. And listening to an album for personal use is not profitable, so it doesn't go against the ethos of the site at all. That site has no adverts and does not run at a profit whatsoever (although to be fair there are some that exist that do) Peer-to-peer isn't free? Peer-to-peer pressure? OK these two are just ridiculous. Being asked to contribute upload bandwidth as you utilise others' does not strike me as unreasonable, &amp; it does not cost most internet users any extra in terms of ISP fees. Yes it is all about sharing. Not stealing or having whatever you want for no effort because you think you deserve it but sharing. I share one of my albums with someone else, they share something of theirs with me. You never did anything like that with tapes or CDs? I'd be willing to bet that the majority of the public who are enthusiastic about music have done something similar at one time or another. So on to the crux of the matter: the iTunes Music Store. What necessarily makes using the iTMS the "right thing" to do? Only recently (and only in the US) have Apple begun to offer some limited DRM free music, albeit at a higher than normal price. The 128kbps encoding used by Apple is considered so poor by most people with any knowledge of digital music formats that it is in fact banned from the site your article hints at. There is a minimum of 192kbps and even then higher bit rates are welcomed. If Apple were to offer higher quality files in a useful format I would use it even more than I do now (and yes i do use it now). Common sense dictates and evidence can be seen that Digital Rights Management only hinders users who wish to legitimately purchase content, and has never stopped pirates from doing what they do. I like having my music in a format that lets me play on essentially any portable music device, experiment with it in DJ mixes I create in my spare time and yes if I choose take to a friends computer, to play it there. All things Apple's iTMS will not let you do. The main idea about using iTMS rests on supporting artists. Again, the iTMS just plain fails in this. US figures are easier to come by than UK ones (have a look at Downhill Battle ) but I'll summarise here: For every song downloaded a major record label artist will typically receive at most 14 US cents. How this constitutes to being fair is far beyond me. The 'Fear Uncertainty and Doubt' spread by the major record labels seems to have reached the offices of the Guardian. I'm not trying to sound like a conspiracy theory socialist here but if you believe that Apple's iTunes Music Store helps artists then you are severely mistaken. But guess what, I download music, but I also like rewarding content creators (music, films etc). However the good feeling you get buying music from iTunes is just a false one. It's pseudo-karma , and as things stand if I download say the Arctic Monkey's new album without paying for it, but do purchase a ticket to see them live, they'll still be taking home more of my money than if I bought their entire back catalogue off of iTunes. The feeling echoed by many users who read your article was that it suggests you don't really 'get' p2p. No one cares whether you pay for your music or not, it's nothing to be ashamed of either way. Because when downloading for free is the alternative to the overpriced, DRM-locked music that financially benefits only the major record labels, well somehow it doesn't seem that bad anymore. It'd be nice to read a reply. Your anonymous internet pirate reader, v3rbatim (no name or post town given)The authors determination to do the right thing buy downloading from legal sources such as iTunes is admirable; I myself don't download from illegal p2p sources . What your author has failed to mention is several problems with the iTunes store itself. Number 1 is that the vast majority of music there still comes with DRM - until this changes I won't be using the store; secondly, the music is provided in AAC format and is not accessible by people who opt to use free software: while AAC is not a problem in the UK due to EU rulings on software patents being illegal, if I want to use free (and by free I refer to freedom, not price) software that can be legally distributed to everyone, AAC is not an option for me. Jonathan Roberts, St Agnes, CornwallYe gods, what a self-righteous soul Laura Marcus is. I'm sure I'll not be the only one to write in response to her bubble of misinformation on the Guardian website, but here's my objection, point by point: First up, "With a boyfriend who's a guitarist and as a writer myself ..." - I don't see how this excludes anyone from peer to peer file-sharing. I am a guitarist and writer myself and have significantly more of an objection to copyright than copying. Buying music through iTunes (or another legitimate source) and pandering to the companies that suck money out of our pockets and the life out of our artists is hardly "doing the right thing." At the very least, that has to be open to question. Granted, feeling ashamed of not using illegal peer to peer networks is daft. All this talk of right and wrong, of absolute morals that play into the hands of major corporations and essentially make a "sin" out of grass-roots co-operation between individuals, smells like religious dogma to me. As for her claim that "peer to peer isn't really free at all" - anyone who doesn't realise that a peer to peer network involves uploading as well as downloading has a pretty poor grasp of the way the world works. What you download came from somewhere. But you are not, in fact, "watched like a hawk" on most peer to peer networks (I'm thinking of Gnutella, OpenFT, FastTrack, Mute etc.) - there is no central control, so who is watching? And of course your IP address is shared with others; when running a server or servant (as P2P client/server apps are generally known) your IP is used by others to connect. How could it not be shared? Your IP address ends up in iTunes' logs, too; and the logs of every website you visit. You dish it out when you use instant messaging, when you send email, and basically every time you interact with any other machine online. And it's not exactly sensitive personal data; on the Mute network for example it doesn't even identify the machine that a particular file is coming from. "Perhaps some lovely viruses, too ..." - should anyone who thinks viruses will just creep down your phone line or cable and infect your computer be writing a technology column? A traditional computer virus can arrive by any vector that any other file can arrive by, but requires the extra helping hand of a user to run its host executable before it can attack. This makes P2P file sharing exactly as dangerous as web surfing, receiving email attachments, using FTP, or doing anything else that might move an executable from the outside world to your PC. Which admittedly with a Microsoft OS is pretty dangerous - but then there are free alternatives to Windows, and anyway this is not a risk that is particularly associated with P2P networks specifically, but with exchanging data in general (think [S]oftware [EX]change ...) The only real threat to the users of peer to peer networks is the one Laura devotes just one sentence to: prosecution by record companies. But I suggest to Laura that she thinks about the morals of this situation rather than jumping to the obvious conclusions. Let's take this from its roots. I won't try to speak for all musicians; here, I am speaking for myself. I learned to play, and I still try to improve my playing and learn new pieces to play, because I love to play music, explore music, and give music to people. I love to get on stage and have people watch and listen and enjoy what I'm doing, and equally I love to sit in an otherwise quiet room at the ragged end of some party or get-together with a bunch of people and play some blues or whatever springs to mind on an acoustic guitar in the corner, ideally with a couple of other musicians to jam along with. The music, making the music, and sharing the music, is what it's always been about for me. I haven't recorded much in my life - maybe a few hours, total - because mostly I'm content to play live to small groups of people. I get no pleasure out of a recording - I can't imagine ever listening to myself play on a CD or MP3 when I have a guitar in the room, since about ten seconds in I'd switch it off and pick up the guitar anyway - so I guess that's selfish in a way if other people could be enjoying my music in my absence! I really should stop ranting and record something... Live performances are expensive in many ways. You can only play to so many people, and you can't practically charge people that much to listen, especially where the band or artist is not well known. If you attach some amplification you can play to larger groups - this can improve profits (and also introduces all kinds of neat effects that can contribute to the creative process, from simple distortion to elaborate loops) but you always have to deal with the musicians, and indeed pay them. When someone (I don't know the details, sure a few minutes of Googling would turn them up) invented a method of mechanically recording and reproducing sound, I can't imagine it was musicians that rejoiced. Think about it: it was more likely to be the concert organisers, the music peddlers rather than the music makers, that would like this invention; it allowed them to sell the same performance, over and over again. It got the one inconvenient thing about the music industry out of the picture for the vultures: the musicians. Now here's how the formula began to shape up for the music peddlers, creating a clearly identifiable trend that continued until quite recently. To maximise profit, realise that you primarily profit from recordings. Live performances should be as loud and slick as possible and are essentially a marketing tool. Artists need little talent - the less talent the better, since the further you can push down the uniqueness of the artist the more common you'll find that artists become, and the more likely they are to appreciate what you do 'for them.' Now, promote the hell out of your talentless artist; if you can get away with it, make live performances little more than karaoke. Many pop concerts are actually significantly less than karaoke since at least at karaoke somebody sings live. Your artist needs to be attractive physically in order to maximise appeal to people who, let's face it, are never going to come for the music itself. The key to making back the vast sums of money that must be spent promoting these lacklustre crooners is ensuring that you can sell the (carefully pitch-shifted and quantised) recordings as many times as possible. Eliminating copying of those recordings is crucial to success in this industry. In the early days this wasn't a problem - very few people had the necessary equipment. With the introduction of digital formats, this all changed, and of course with well compressed audio files these days (I'm thinking of OGG and MP3) sharing over the internet has become practical. Now not only can everyone copy the music and share it (as we have been able to since the audio cassette), but they can do it automatically, trivially easily, without loss of quality, and distribute the results to total strangers in vast quantities. Naturally, the music peddlers resort to copyright legislation, but a few words on a piece of paper, a few laws, should not be enough to write our moral codes. If, hypothetically, you search for some song that you like on a peer to peer network and happen to download it from me, then what are the implications, really? In the background, my PC makes a new, perfect copy of the song I already have stored locally and transmits it to yours, which makes another new, perfect copy. The music peddlers had nothing to do with it. We have used some of my electricity and equipment, and some of yours. Between us, we paid for your copy. We shared the music. For free, voluntarily and in a spirit of co-operation. This is the music, this is the spirit. When I play my guitar on a stage or in a living room or on the street, everyone who passes gets a copy: I made it, they took it. In a sense, they all copied it. But nobody lost the music. It was for everyone. My hands and my strings and my guitar made the sound and I don't want to own the copyright. I don't object to recording music. What is happening here is not the death of music, or the death of musicians. It's just that now every musician for less than 100 can have a computer capable of recording his or her music and distributing the recordings. Every music lover with 100 to spend can have a computer capable of downloading and playing back that music. (OK, they both get a better computing experience if they spend three or four times as much, but 100 buys you enough computer to run a sequencer, OGG encoder and OGG player if you're hard up; I haven't bought a computer for more than 20 in five years and the one I'm using right now plays video near perfectly and certainly doesn't struggle with audio). We, the musicians and music lovers, thought we needed the recording industry when the equipment to record music, copy music and distribute music was expensive. When it involved thousands of valves, massive mixing desks, contraptions to cut and copy vinyl, packaging, distribution, retail outlets and all the usual stuff that goes along with a physical product. But music itself never really was a physical product and now technology has progressed to the point where we don't need to produce and transport physical objects to share music any more. We can play music, record music, distribute music and play back the millions of copies we can make at negligible cost now without the intervention of the music peddlers. I say we're done with them. And yet when we try to co-operate and share music in the way that people did for thousands of years before they came long and hijacked the whole thing, they will hunt us down and litigate? And we are supposed to feel that this is right? They no longer offer us anything we need, but they still feel they are entitled to our money? I fail to see how handing my money to them constitutes "doing the right thing." People often ask me how I think musicians will make money in my peer to peer utopia. I tell them there are two parts to the answer. First, I don't care. I am a musician. I make money by doing a real job. We all have to do whatever we have to do - we need to find someone in this world who will pay us for doing something, and it's rarely going to be something that they'd like to do themselves. In the case of music - well, music is great. I love music. I am passionate about it. But I like a lot of things that nobody will pay me to do. Maybe music should be something we make because we want to share ourselves, not in order to become obscenely rich or avoid real work. Then on the other hand, there's part two: if someone will pay me anything to play music in an environment where there is no profit in recordings, then it will be to play live. In that case, there is money to be made and work to be done, and I will happily take my share of the takings for a concert I've played. That's honesty. And it's also extremely rewarding. If I'm really good and hundreds of people will pay to see me play, then maybe I can even make a living out of it. Success in this hypothetical music 'industry' is not so lucrative, but at least genuine talent would be rewarded. Another example of a musician outside of the mainstream of the industry who makes his living from music that springs to my mind is Woody Mann, the fingerstyle guitarist, who makes most of his money playing live and as a guitar teacher. He is not as rich or famous as Kylie, but he farts more talent than she'll ever see, and he gets by just fine. I don't really understand how some so-called artists think they have some kind of inalienable right to continue to be paid for the rest of their lives for a performance they gave decades before, for which they have already been paid, or what they think they achieve, practically or morally, by suing people for loving and sharing their music. Anyway, I do apologise for the long mail, but it irritates me. Any artist defending the music industry is a shallow thinker, and probably a very self-absorbed, mediocre musician, as well. Thanks for the opportunity to vent some steam. Without it, I think my head would have exploded after reading that Technobile article. Geoff Mackenzie, East KilbrideLaura Marcus' article detailing her experience (or lack of) with Oink's Pink Palace was unintentionally hilarious, mainly because the idea of real world peer group pressure affecting a small, size limited site like Oink is, well, silly. Peer 2 Peer group pressure may be an amusing concept, but is definitely not a real one. An article about how Oink is the only place to go for high quality, DRM free music would be far more useful. Dan Walker, NottinghamEBAY'S SHIELDEbay's response to anything is usually unsatisfactory. The boilerplate Lucy received looks like the same one I received when I was the victim of shill bidding. They also stated they could find no evidence and the character who was shilling me is still trading with close to 90% of his items now having last minute bid retractions. Bidding fraud is rife on Ebay and they seem reluctant to do anything about it. Unfortunately, until they get some competition there's no incentive for them to. Kim Aldis, LondonI read with interest the story about eBay and its unsatisfactory response to bid shielding. Whilst I have no problem with the general thrust of the article, and agree that eBay should indeed do more to prevent this from happening, it's hard to have any sympathy with Lucy who was 'suspecting a tout trying to corner the market', when, by attempting to sell tickets at way above face value, she was in fact guilty of ticket touting herself. Steve Miller, NorthamptonAfter reading your report I am a bit confused. In every eBay auction I have been involved in as either a buyer or a seller, a 56 maximum bid to beat a 21 bid will only appear as a 22 until someone outbids that, when it will go up to just above the next bidder's bid. The maximum bid remains known only to the bidder, until it is finally outbid, so Lucy was never in line for a winning bid of 56 unless someone else bid 55, and I am at a bit of a loss as to how she knew anything about the 56 bid. Ben Evans, Leamington SpaJust a little ironic that 'Lucy' apparently got caught out by an ebay tout whilst trying to sell concert tickets on at a profit. Perhaps if she'd been a little less greedy, she could have got her money back by selling her tickets on a more ethically sound exchange site likeScarlet Mist? Owen Oppenheimer, LondonExactly the same thing happened to me when selling a car three weeks ago. Ebay's response was the same, and to make matters worse, they charge a final fee based on the value of the high bid, and as far as I can tell, also charge a final fee on the selling bid. Their Email system is final, and arbitrary, and it is obvious that their operators work from scripts to build a reply, which never answers the question you put to them. David Cornforth, ExeterFREE DATA: WATERI would urge as many people as possible to protest now because theEnvironment Agency is currently consulting the publicon GPP13 (Groundwater Protection Paper 13). Chris Shirley-Smith, Director, Water Works UK Ltd, LondonMOTOROLA's KEYBOARDAs one who must confess to being a Luddite as far as mobile (or more logically, cellphones) are concerned I read the item on the Motorola Q9h with amazement! What on earth is the point of a miniature Qwerty keyboard on a device to be held in one hand? The present obsession with cramming more and more functions into as small an item is possible seems to be the product of a sales department's lurid dream rather than an exercise in practicality. To me, the phone should be just that, with the possible addition of text functions. It is much more convenient to have a PC for computer functions, a TV to receive television signals and a camera to photograph scenes. As a retired chartered electronics engineer I have seen many letters echoing my sentiments in professional journals but I guess where money can be made from the gullible, the sales department will win! Derek Roughton, OvinghamGPSMr Keegan's criticism of GPS seems a little bit unfair. Considering he claims to have been testing GPS satellite navigation systems for five years he fails to mention the Nokia N95 uses a much older SIRF II chip-set as opposed to the newer and much more sensitive SIRF III. My SIRF III receiver works just as well in cities as it does in the country. Also the distance for your nearest restaurant and one-way systems are related to the software you use (the Nokia uses its own) rather than the capabilities of the Global Positioning System. Simon Corbett, NorthamptonOPERATION ORE: SUCCESSFUL?Please remember that in Operation Ore the name, address and credit card number did not have to even match for them to obtain a search warrant. When we found out the basis of the warrant was supposedly an AMEX card in 1999, I literally spewed coffee out of my nose- My husband's credit rating is so bad that no one would ever give him an AMEX card!!!! We even went so far as to get a letter from AMEX that he had never had a card from them, never applied for one and they had never heard from him. The response of the police and CPS? "Ah well, the thing is, the address used was his address AT SOME POINT- not necessarily on the dates on the database and well, the password used on Landslide is the same password found on your computer so he must be guilty." Doesn't that sound like excellent police and detective work? [name and address supplied]DAB QUALITYWell said on the DAB radio debacle. The idea that only The Guardian's Jack Schofield is critical of current DAB is complacent and ridiculous. But annoyance with DAB radio goes surely well beyond their iffy sound quality. I own a Sony set that is described as "portable" (laugh now) but which eats batteries at such a rate it has to be plugged into the mains more or less all the time if you actually want to guarantee being able to listen to the end of any radio programme. And if it does give out while using batteries, it loses its settings within seconds while you change them and has to be retuned. Three minutes later... It's got so bad that my wife refuses to have anything to do with it. Oh, and the reception is hopeless if the radio isn't actually set on a table and left well alone. Hold it in your hands, and sound deteriorates to babble, noise and hum. Plus points? It is only a bit more bulky than the 1.50 radio my dad bought me in 1972, though in real terms this one cost about three times as much. I also like the fact that I can avoid ever having to inadvertently tune into the excrement that passes for commercial radio on my way through the bands to something better. In the end, though, I'd still argue that the problem with radio in the UK has nothing to do with the technology used to receive and transmit it. It is that, BBC radio aside, it's utter crap. We need better content and more competition, not a new way to listen to tripe. I somebody doesn't do something to address that issue, radio will tip into the abyss into which TV fell in the 1990s, of having 150 channels in 42 inch widescreen with HDTV promised, virtually none of which is worth watching. John E. Dunn, Associate Editor, Techworld, LondonVISTA DRIVERS (CONT'D)I bought a Canon D2400 scanner; expensive but has film as well as platen scanning. A year later (2 years ago) I purchased a new computer, based on an AMD Athlone processor with XP Home, but the canon will not work with this. Canon say it's because it's 64 bit, though working at 32, and they're not bringing out a driver for this. As the printer was ageing I went for an Epson Photo RX620 all-in-one, which does everything it says on the box, scanning film quite happily, and it cost less than the Canon scanner. My PC supplier says it's up to Canon to supply the driver, but this isn't happening. They don't tell you that Athlon/XP don't always mix, and that's before Vista! Brian Casey, YorkPOWER CONSUMPTION (CONT'D)There area lot of excellent points, based on facts, in Ron West's article. I pretty well agree with everything said. One aspect that is not mentioned, to my surprise, in view of the excellent analysis in the article, is that some so called 'wasted' electrical energy isn't wasted at all! In this cool part of Canada just about every month of the year requires some heating; especially at night when lighting used before bed is turned on. We don't even own an air conditioner; which could be another whole discussion about heat pumps etc.? The 'wasted' heat from conventional and very cheap bulbs help to heat our house. On the other hand street lamps (of any type of light source) that burn all night are merely wasteful. A specific example are six 40 watt bulbs above the vanity in our bathroom. They produce more heat than light from the 240 watts consumed while they are on; probably for, at most, two hour per day. And they are cheap, about 25 cents each. When they are on the 500 watt electric baseboard heater in that room rarely, if ever, comes on! The push towards banning conventional (incandescent) bulbs in favour of more expensive 'Compact fluorescents' would seem partially ill-founded? Also we are warned that CFLs etc. do not take as kindly to being switched on/off; therefore a tendency to leave them on We have installed fluorescent strip lighting in our workshop, garage and kitchen; using mainly recycled fixtures from local schools. These areas, if light is switched on, tend to be in use continually and therefore more suitable for the use of fluorescents. Terry Sanford (no post town given), Canada
I have retired and I want to replace my home desktop PC, but can't decide if a laptop, docking station and wireless router would be better. I would like to be able to download films/programmes to watch on TV, with my wife. What sort of spec I should be looking for? Mike BertenshawA desktop PC provides more computer power, a better screen and usually a better keyboard than a laptop, and still costs a lot less. If you are a heavy user, ergonomics factors also mean a desktop should be better for your health.The arguments for buying a notebook are generally based on convenience and not having to devote space to it: you can use a notebook anywhere in the house, and stow it away when it is not in use. It could also make it easier to watch movies with your wife, as you won't have to burn them to disc. Only you can decide which approach suits you best.However, if your desktop PC is in your living room, a Vista Home Premium system can double as a reasonable entertainment system. It includes the multimedia features that used to be in Windows Media Centre PCs, and can be operated using a remote control. If fitted with a TV tuner, it can also record and replay TV programmes.When it comes to specification, any current machine will do what you need. However, you should make sure you get at least 1GB of memory: at today's prices, 2GB makes economic sense. If running Windows Vista, you will get better performance if the system has a graphics card with 128MB or preferably 256MB of dedicated memory, and does not share memory with the processor. Unfortunately, this eliminates the cheaper desktop PCs and a large proportion of notebooks. Unless you are running fast-action games or doing heavyweight graphics, you may not care. Either way, I'd still aim for a notebook that scores more than 3.0 on the Windows Experience Index, or a desktop that scores 4.0 or more (http://www.shareyourscore.com).
Given a choice of USB or PS2 mouse, is there anything to choose between them? I'm running Windows XP at present. Walt O'DowdUSB (Universal Serial Bus) was supposed to kill off old-style mouse, keyboard and printer ports. However, mice generally come with both PS2 and USB connectors, so I still use the PS2 option when it's available. I've found PS2 extremely reliable -- unlike USB -- and at worst, it can free up a USB port for something else.
