Facebook began trading shares on the Nasdaq stock exchange this morning, opening at just over $42, instantly up 10% on the initial offer price, before dropping back to just over $40.With the initial offer price of $38, Facebook's shares were already set at the high end of a range the company set earlier in the week and values the company at $104bn.The price makes Facebook more valuable than Amazon, which also trades on the Nasdaq.Early trading was delayed until 11.30amn by the volume of shares being bought and sold. More than 82m shares were traded in the first 30 seconds.The first trades were made two hours after Mark Zuckerberg remotely rang the opening bell for the New York-based stock exchange from outside his California headquarters as staff cheered him on.The excitement was rare good news for Wall Street, where major indexes were on track to close their worst week of 2012, pressured largely by the ongoing situation in Europe.The sale instantly catapulted the social network founder into the top tier of the super rich. The shares were priced to sell at $38 and at that price Facebook created 88 people with fortunes of over $30m, according to Wealth-X, an analyst that monitors high net worth individuals. If the price reaches $43, there will be 265 Facebook millionaires worth more than $30m.Facebook's initial public offering (IPO) is the most hotly anticipated share sale since Google's in 2004. Google's stock started trading at $85 and ended the day at $100.34. Google's shares now sell for over $620.As with the Google IPO, there has been a lot of scepticism about Facebook's ability to turn its phenomenal number of users into a business able to support a $100bn-plus valuation. Facebook's revenues were $3.7bn last year. Goldman Sachs, the investment bank, had revenues of close to $29bn and is valued at half Facebook's current value.The social network now has over 900 million people on its service and will soon top a billion. For its fans, Facebook is the defining company of the 21st century."His impact on the world will be as least as big as Bill Gates and probably already has been," said David Kirkpatrick, author of The Facebook Effect.Other analysts argued that the hype was proof of another dotcom bubble. Facebook's IPO follows a mixed set of share sales from other social media firms including Groupon, the online coupon company, and Zynga, the games firm behind Words With Friends and Draw Something.Facebook itself has driven up the bubble, according to some, by spending $1bn on Instagram, a profitless photo-sharing application."Facebook's shares were always going to pop at the open, that's no suprise at all," said Sam Hamadeh, co-founder of PrivCo, a financial analyst. "After the first couple of weeks, I think it'll drop back down to the mid twenties."Hamadeh said he believed Facebook was worth $24-$25 a share. "And that's being generous," he said.Whatever the future for Facebook, it's founders and early investors were certainly celebrating.Co-founder Eduardo Saverin congratulated Zuckerberg on his Facebook page: "Congrats to everyone involved in the project from day one till today, and I especially wanted to congratulate Mark Zukerberg (sic) on keeping tremendous stead-fast (sic) focus, however hard that was, on making the world a more open and connected place."Saverin is now worth over $2.7bn.
The proper question is not "are we in a tech bubble?", but "where are we on the timeline of the bubble?" How long before it pops?This in itself, by the way, is the question on which bubbles grow. If you believe the bubble will continue to inflate, then you should jump in and thus become part of what makes the bubble balloon – assuming, obviously, that you will be able to get out before it is too late. And remember, many people do, profitably, get out.The Facebook IPO indicates that yes, we are in a bubble; and no, it is not in danger of exploding anytime soon. Indeed, the Facebook IPO – by, in effect, printing a $100bn in new, spendable, money – further inflates this bubble. Investors investors have spent some $16bn in cash on Facebook shares, valuing them at $104bn, a part of which Facebook will now spend on other companies, which will increase their value, as well as the value of all other like-minded companies. Without creating any real value, that $16bn could, in the next year, plausibly expand to a trillion.In a sense, to speak briefly in praise of bubbles, this is good news. Important aspects of the world will be remade between now and when the bubble bursts. The bubble will finance lots of innovation, lots of long-term ideas that are not economically viable in the short term, and lots of personal reinvention. The last bubble, the three- or four-year (depending on where you date it from) of madcap euphoria that collapsed in 2001, financed the R&amp;D of the industry that developed since that crash.One of the reasonable arguments against bubbles is that crashes also delay development that might otherwise happen in a more systematic and orderly fashion. The other argument is that they distort reality: that they not only make the markets go crazy, they make people go crazy, too.It's a kind of psychic havoc. People begin to live in fantasy world. An enormous amount of economic and emotional activity occurs outside the structure of cause an effect. When the bubble bursts, not only does all this illusory economic activity disappear, but the souls of the people performing this activity die a little, too.Still, a bubble is the physiological and economic circumstance that makes people invest themselves and their money in the unlikely and even the impossible – that is, the speculative. Without a bubble, normally fearful and ambivalent people stay home.Facebook now derives 80% of its revenue from advertising, but the ultimate upshot of the rationalizations that have attended the $100bn-plus IPO valuation, is that while Facebook can't sustain its growth metric on advertising alone (indeed, its advertising, as a per user value, is shrinking), it will surely think of something else. That is, if anyone will, Facebook will. Won't it?That something else will involve … well, innovation, new models, evolving behaviors, and, of course, the ability to spend $100bn to get what it wants.So, while a bubble distorts and delays reality, it doesn't change it. You only have so much time to prove yourself. And that's the point: it is easy to see the beginning of a bubble, which is why everyone is seeing it now, but hard to see the end.One scenario has it that while Facebook races madly toward some proof of its proposition that it can be worth what people are now betting it will be worth (in itself, obviously, a fearful distortion of cause and effect), it will necessarily keep undercutting its own ad prices to keep revenues rising, therefore depressing the rest of the industry. While Facebook itself reported a sharp fall in its own CPMs (cost-per-thousand pages views) in the first quarter of 2012, so have other large, mass traffic sites – by as much as 25%.So yes, the collapse is beginning even as the bubble is filling.Some of us call this fun.
If the Colin McRae rally games can be called a family, then offshootDiRT Showdown(PS3/Xbox 360/PC) is the rebellious, hedonistic younger cousin. The McRae family trade is a mostly sombre business. Since the start of the franchise – now rebranded DiRT – 12 years ago,Showdown's ancestorshave been serious driving simulators full of slammed clutches, tight corners and expertly timed handbrakes. They were games that frowned upon such frivolities as ramps and power-ups, like a landscape painter asked to finish off a masterpiece by adding a naked man surfing a wave of lava. They were not, in short, casual games.In the earliest instalments, in particular, the series was clearly courting players who fancied themselves as decent real-world rally drivers. The sort of gamer who, whenever a professional driver gets injured, half-believes they'll get a phone call from a national coach pleading, "We need you. We know you've never driven a real car but dammit, John, you're the best guy we've got." The archetypal player of the early games owned a plug-in steering wheel, brake pedals and a special chair with built-in speakers, and there was almost certainly at least one guy, somewhere, who played in a life-size papier-mache rally car that took up half of his flat.Showdown, by contrast, makes a clean break from the stuffy realism of its forebears. The typical Showdown player picked up their video-game driving licence in a Mario Kart, with Crash Bandicoot as their instructor, and still only scraped a pass on their fifth time taking the test. This ispure arcade racing.Which means, of course, a boost button, spectacular crashes and plenty of different game modes. It's a mark of how far the franchise has strayed from its mud-stained roots that even the tracks in the conventional racing mode are littered with ramps and obstacles to crash through, while corners, on the other hand, are few and far between, and tend to be gentle and forgiving. Even a relative newbie should be able to make it from start to finish without, as most driving games force them to, bouncing off the side-walls like a buffered bowling ball. And, as if it hadn't been made easy enough, on the rare occasion a player does mess up a turn, a single button rewinds time to let them give it another shot, a move they can use up to five times in a single race.Rewinding time is not an option in "rampage mode", however, which hurls eight cars into a walled arena to smash each other apart for three minutes, with points awarded for shunting, slamming and ramming into fellow drivers. This turns out to be much harder than it first appears, since all seven other cars are aiming to do the same. Many players will find they spend half their time charging across the arena at another vehicle like a lunatic, only to shoot headlong into a wall or else get clogged in a cluster of cars in the middle awkwardly nudging each other towards destruction dent by dent. Which is not to say such near-misses aren't a helluva lot of fun, just that they undermine the "rampage" label a little. On the other hand "confused maniacs mode" doesn't exactly roll off the tongue.Nor, for that matter, does "Hoonigan" mode, the new name for the game's"Gymkhana"courses, for both of which, read: "Showing Off On Your Own." At early levels Hoonigan mode consists entirely of drifting round corners, skidding in full circles around poles and knocking over neat piles of stacked crates. Like the races, tricks have become a lot easier to perform than in previous DiRT games, and even a full-circle skid requires only a couple of simple button presses.On this evidence, it's clear the developers have set out to make a game that anyone can pick up. As a result, it's both delightfully easy to learn and frustratingly easy to master. While the casual gamer will find plenty to enjoy, the guy in the papier-mache car will probably be disappointed. But, to be fair, the fact a racing game has opted for fun over fusty realism is almost certainly the least of his problems.
Facebook's first day of trading following its $100bn flotation has been gate-crashed by a $15bn class action against the social network.Users of the service have filed an "amended consolidated class action complaint" in federal court in San Jose, California, relating to allegations that Facebook has been "improperly tracking the internet use of its members even after they logged out of their accounts".The class action is being brought by law firms Stewarts Law US and Bartimus, Frickleton, Robertson &amp; Gorny.David Straite, a partner at Stewarts Law, said: "This is not just a damages action, but a ground-breaking digital privacy rights case that could have wide and significant legal and business implications."The plaintiffs are citing the federal Wiretap Act, which provides statutory damages of up to $10,000 per user and they say potentially implies damages of more than $15bn if compensation is rolled out across Facebook's user base.The action consolidates 21 related cases filed in more than a dozen states in 2011 and early 2012.If successful, the claimants could stifle Facebook's ability to collect data about its users and hinder its ability to grow advertising revenues.The social network generated 85% of its $3.7bn revenues last year from advertising, according to its regulatory filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.A German data protection official also warned Facebook investors on Friday that the social network's $38 starting share price is based on practices that breach European privacy rules.Thilo Weichert, the data protection commissioner for the northern German state of Schleswig-Holstein, was quoted in the German daily newspaper Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung warning shareholders to be aware that if European privacy authorities have their way, "Facebook's business model will implode."Facebook declined to comment as the company prepared to go public on the Nasdaq stock exchange on Friday.
Max Payne is a troubled man. The latest instalment in his dark tale of loss and revenge sees the ex-New York cop taking on a job as a personal security contractor in Sau Paulo, Brazil. There, he becomes mired in a complex plot involving the wealthy clients he is protecting, a gang of paramilitary vigilantes and a shady special forces arm of the local police force. There is a lot of blood, a lot of pain.But here's a problem. Throughout the game's beautifully constructed narrative sequences, we see Payne going through agonies of recrimination and remorse; he's still haunted by the murder of his wife and baby by junkies; he questions his own motives as a DEA agent and then as a glorified bodyguard; he is disgusted by himself and his life. When the game begins he's effectively drinking himself to death in his filthy New Jersey apartment. He desperately seeks some form of salvation.Yet he is also an accomplished killer, capable of gunning down a room full of "enemies" in a matter of seconds. Through the course of the game he takes out hundreds of people with a variety of weapons, stopping only to pop painkillers and reload. But at the end of every action sequence, we return to the anguished Payne of the narrative, slamming back bourbon and regretting everything that has led him here. Somehow this shadow of a man is able to fly across a room with two machine pistols wiping out lowlife gangsters as though swatting flies.This isn't a failure of the game, as such –it's an astonishingly entertaining thrill ride that I've heartily recommended. But the slight disconnect between the shambling Max of the cinematic sequences and the athletic psychopath we control in the interactive sections is the latest example of a pervasive video game dilemma: the difficulty of marrying the narrative with the ludic.Back in 2007, the veteran game designer Clint Hockingwrote a blog postin which he created the term Ludonarrative Dissonance; he used this to describe a central failure of the otherwise brilliant game Bioshock. Hocking felt that while the narrative of the game wants the protagonist to be selfless in aiding Atlas, the actual mechanics of the game rely on self-interest and the pursuit of power.To cut straight to the heart of it, Bioshock seems to suffer from a powerful dissonance between what it is about as a game, and what it is about as a story. By throwing the narrative and ludic elements of the work into opposition, the game seems to openly mock the player for having believed in the fiction of the game at all. The leveraging of the game's narrative structure against its ludic structure all but destroys the player's ability to feel connected to either, forcing the player to either abandon the game in protest (which I almost did) or simply accept that the game cannot be enjoyed as both a game and a story, and to then finish it for the mere sake of finishing it.The interesting thing about Bioshock is that, with the Little Sisters (and your ability to either spare or harvest them), the player is invited into the moral debate that the game proposes. However, Hocking points out that this element is so hopelessly skewed in one direction, it only serves to accentuate the dissonance between story and action.There are a few similar moral considerations in Max Payne 3; in a couple of scenes the story allows us to stop and make a decision on what our hero does next, but these do not directly impact the ongoing plot; they are isolated moral decisions – to shoot or not to shoot a wounded enemy. In a way, this is as much of a disssonance as the Bioshock problem: Max is filled with doubt and self-loathing and yet his in-game actions – at least as far as the flow of the story is concerned – are resolute and deadly.And Payne is in no way alone here. In most narrative action titles that require spectacular violence from the protagonist, the player is encouraged to both see the character as a rounded human in the story sections, but then treat them as a killing machine in the interactive sequences. Look at bespectacled geek Gordon Freeman in Half-Life. One minute he is chatting with his colleagues about complex science, the next he is beheading alien invaders with a crowbar.Indeed, Half-Life reveals a central irony of ludonarrative dissonance: to ensure the physical realism of the environment, Valve has allowed the player to attack other scientists – which is ludicrous to the story. However, games where players areunableto slaughter important non-player characters (ie, almost all RPGs) prompt a similar sense of disconnect and are equally ludicrous.This is a good problem in a lot of ways. It means developers are telling complex stories about characters who are ambiguous and troubled. The downside is, the conventional mechanics of action games haven't quite caught up. No one wants to play a game in which we have to guide Max though years of treament for alcoholism and grief. But is there a compromise?Naughty Dog, the creator of the Uncharted series, has recognised and grappled with this whole conundrum. Nathan Drake is depicted in the story sequences as a charming loveable rogue, but in the interactive sections of the games, he guns down hundreds of people. So which is the "real" Drake: the Drake of the narrartive or the Drake in the hands of the player? Is that Drake a psychopath?"Amy [Hennig, Uncharted creator] has a name for this," explained lead designer Richard Lemarchand at the GameCity festival last year. "She calls it 'the uncanny valley of narrative'. Her theory is, because the acting performances have become so good, it makes this issue of the game parts stand out even more."In fact, if you play through to the end of Uncharted 2, Amy references this issue. At the climax, the main bad guy Lazarevic says to Drake, 'You're no different to me. How many lives have you taken today?' We do think about it and we're always looking for creative ways to address that issue."So far, what the developer has tried to do is place Nathan in obvious and immediate peril at the beginning of every shoot-out. He never fires first, and even when he sneaks up on an enemy and snaps their neck, he's always in a situation of mortal danger. We must decide for ourselves if this "absolution by context" argument is adequate.There are, however, plenty of titles that stay on the right side of the ludonarrative problem, by exactly matching the story and game mechanics. Rocksteady's Batman titles are the perfect example – here, we know that the Batman we see in the cinematics is the same as we experience battling foes in the missions. There is no disconnect between the driven, single-minded character and his capacity for violence.Max Payne 3 is a very strong narrative experience. It hasn't taken the easy route of post-modern irony, smirking at the disconnect lying in the centre of the action (Bulletstorm did this beautifully, by the way) – it takes Max seriously. But when will we begin to see action games that present us with complex characters and difficult scenarios and then provide us with the gameplay elements to really explore these without dissonance? And given how enjoyable the Max Payne 3 experience is, do we even want that?Games are about control; it's fine to have a neurotic AI sidekick, but if we can't trust the avatar, does that just become annoying? The big reveal in Heavy Rain was built around our inability to guess the motivations of a complex and damaged player character, and many gamers hated that. Should we just accept that the people we play in games, and the people who appear in the stories, are sometimes different, and sometimes utterly incompatible?
He is the 28-year-old computer wiz whose billion-dollar bank balance has inflated as quickly as his social network. But, in a string of unguarded instant messages sent to college friends in 2004, the Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg even then showed a steely ambition in his approach to his future $100bn business.The correspondence, published bythe Business Insider website, shows a 19-year-old Zuckerberg firing off scattergun thoughts about business, social networks – and user privacy.Zuckerberg appears to confirm in one message that he secretly hacked into the website of the Harvard University newspaper, the Crimson, by guessing the emails and passwords of two people in the college database."So I want to read what they said about me before the article came out and after I complained," he told a friend. "So I'm just like trying the email/passwords of everyone who put that they're in the Crimson. I wonder if the school tracks stuff like that."In another message, Zuckerberg boasts about deactivating college students' accounts on the internal Harvard social network, ConnectU. "I got bored so I started deactivating accounts on ConnectU haha," the future cyber-grandee writes.Zuckerberg jokes in another exchange that 4,000 people have submitted emails, pictures and addresses to his budding Harvard social network. "People just submitted it ... I don't know why ... They 'trust me' ... dumb fucks."Facebook would not confirm or deny that the messages were authentic when asked on Friday, butZuckerberg told the New Yorker in September 2010that he absolutely regretted sending them."If you're going to go on to build a service that is influential and that a lot of people rely on, then you need to be mature, right? I think I've grown and learned a lot," Zuckerberg told the magazine in 2010.The messages were leaked to Business Insider in 2010 as Facebook's legal team trawled Zuckerberg's computer in the search of evidence to defeat the now-infamous legal claim from the Winklevoss twins.They will have proved painfully embarrassing for the Facebook founder who has attempted to draw a line under his Harvard days and be the responsible, but still hoody-wearing, internet executive his investors yearn for him to be.The messages have also not derailed the stratospheric success of Facebook. Zuckerberg was named Time's person of the year in 2010, just months after the controversial exchanges became public.On Friday the social network will cement its place in US business history with a public offering expected to value Facebook at $104bn and make its founder one of the richest people on Earth.
Still having problems logging in to Diablo 3? Blizzard acknowledges your pain. Ina note on the game's official forum, the developer has apologised to buyers and admitted that its preparations for launch did not go far enough. It now claims to have applied a series of optimisations "to help our systems better weather the global rush".While the fight to steady the infrastructure continues, the company has suspended the launch of its online real-money Auction House, which allows players to sell in-game items for actual cash rather than virtual currency. The controversial feature was set to arrive on 22 May but it has been pushed back with no word on a new live date. A virtual currency Auction House remains in operation.Blizzard has also promised to investigate a problem with the game's Achievement system which meant that for some players, in-game achievements were not being recorded properly between game saves.Maintaining a light and chummy tone, Blizzard's text stated: "We'd also like to say that we've been humbled by your enthusiasm – and we sincerely regret that your crusade to bring down the Lord of Terror was thwarted not by mobs of demons, but by mortal infrastructure."The servers supporting the hugely anticipated hack-and-slash adventure went live at midnight on Tuesday. However, overwhelming demand meant that many customers were unable to access the game, which requires a constant internet connection, even in the single-player mode. Blizzard had stress tested its infrastructure in April, but was apparently unprepared for the global assault on its Battle.net system.Angry gamers flooded social networking sites in the wake of the launch, causing the game's Error37 message to trend on Twitter. More creative fans have turned the unpopular noticeinto a meme.Meanwhile, the games press has produced a variety of responses. On Wednesday, Pat Garratt of VG247 posted an articleinforming enraged Diablo fans what they should do with those spare few hourslocked out of the Diablo game.Today, by way of contrast, Rob Fahey of GamesIndustry.Biz has posted an opinion piecedefending gamers as consumers who have paid for a service and expect it to work.He also suggests that Diablo 3, with its still relatively rare always-online stipulation, warns us about a future in which all games require permanent log-ins on a broadband network that can barely cope.
Video-sharing apps are all the rage in Silicon Valley in 2012. Well, two are. Viddy raised $30m in mid-May as it passed 27m users, then signed up Justin Bieber, while rival Socialcam has 51.5m monthly active users.Facebook's desire to pay $1bn to buy photo-sharing app Instagram has focused attention on Viddy and Socialcam, with both having been labelled 'the Instagram of video' and tipped for similar big-money exits. Yet a new app calledVyclonemight just trump them both.The iPhone app was released on Thursday 17 May in the UK alone, in advance of a wider launch later in the year. It's not just about shooting videos and sharing them on Facebook and Twitter. Vyclone's social features begin when you're actually filming.Or as its in-app intro describes it: "Co-create, sync and share movies with the people around you. Film together and make a movie with all of your perspectives."Vyclone itself is a startup, with its head office in Los Angeles, and a team of developers in London. I met chief executive David King Lassman and vice president of marketing Marni Borek just after the app went live to find out more.It started off as a music-focused thing, with Lassman's co-founder Joe Sumner – musician and son of Sting – coming up with an idea in 2010 for a technology that would take all the videos shot by fans at gigs, synchronise them together, then replace the audio with a proper feed from the soundboard. And then let fans remix all this.'Bigger than music'The company set to work in late 2010, building the technology while talking to labels, publishers, artists and live music firms about possible partnerships, and raising seed funding from angel and institutional investors and entertainment companies."We realised as we were building it that this was something way bigger than music," says Lassman."What we had built was a tool that gave people at any event, from a child's birthday party to a fashion show, sports event or stadium concert, the ability to hold up their phones, and connect to everybody else who was shooting video at that event."I've been testing Vyclone, and it's very impressive. Start filming, and a little box pops up in the bottom corner of the screen showing how many other people are filming too – this is based on location data.You can film up to 60 seconds of footage, and then upload it to Vyclone's server, where it's combined with those other people's videos, stitched together into a mini-movie that can then be watched within the app, shared to YouTube, saved to the camera roll and so on.Meanwhile, a remix feature lets you switch between the different viewpoints to create your own edit, simply by tapping on the video thumbnails in real-time as they all play on-screen. It's a very elegant, intuitive app to use."Our big regret is that we didn't have Vyclone ready in time for the Arab unrest or Occupy Wall Street protests, as it would have been a very powerful tool to record what was truly happening," says Lassman."We're convinced that citizen journalism will be a key application for the product. But the reason we're putting this out into the public domain is that people will find uses for this that we couldn't possibly begin to imagine."Vyclone's app is elegant and intuitive to useMoney-making plansMusic remains a key strand in Vyclone's thinking: it's working with Live Nation in the US, for example. Originally, the company's business model was based around "this being a piece of merchandise: you'd download the app for free, then buy a licence to legally record the gig".The more general focus now means Vyclone is focusing on signing up lots of users in the short term, then making money. Lassman says ideas include using in-app purchases to record longer or higher-resolution videos.However, he stresses that the company is flexible, and has already made changes during the app's development, such as removing an initial requirement that multiple people be filming nearby to use the app. A sensible change, given the famous flop of photo-sharing app Color, which launched with a similar requirement.Vyclone is iPhone-only for now, but Lassman says Android is firmly in the company's plans, albeit after "three, four, five or maybe six" iterations of the iPhone version to hone the product.There will also be a tablet version of the app, and at some point an API so that Vyclone's technology can be incorporated into other apps – examples might be those for music artists or news broadcasters.Vyclone is one of the most potentially disruptive social apps that I've seen, but it does throw up some chewy questions concerning rights. For example, over ownership of a video created from footage shot by several people, especially if it then gets published to YouTube or even used by a broadcaster if it's news-related.Users can choose whether their videos are publicly shared, viewable and editable. If public, the company'sterms and conditionssay this:"By choosing to post the content to the Vyclone website through the app, you are granting pretty much everyone else the right to use, edit and view your content. It's 21st Century sharing, and we hope you like that. If you don't, then don't hit POST to submit your content to the Vyclone website through the app."Rights disruptionBut there are other kinds of rights. Think about Vyclone users in London's Olympic stadium shooting the 100m final, or in Berlin for the Champions League football final – events where the mobile video rights are a.) assigned and b.) lucrative.There are issues around uploading video from these kinds of events to Facebook, YouTube and other sites – and even more so if livestreaming to something like Ustream. But the slicker the videos crowdshot on Vyclone are, the more kittens it may give sporting bodies and broadcasters.Lassman says that Vyclone is following the same policy as the likes of YouTube: users are expected to have the rights for the video they shoot – including the consent of everyone they film, which is tricky at a football match or large gig – with a robust takedown policy for copyright infringements.Of course, it could be a partner in these cases too, especially when its API launches. A football club could put Vyclone in its own app and encourage fans to film on matchdays. A musician could do the same thing for gigs. A broadcaster could even integrate Vyclone videos from an event into its coverage.As I said, potentially disruptive. But only if enough people use it. Word-of-mouth will help Vyclone to a certain extent, but the company's challenge now is to ensure that its app reaches critical mass as quickly as possible.That's if it isn't snapped up by a bigger fish in the meantime, of course. The company has filed several patents for its technology, and could well be a tempting acquisition for a Facebook, a Google or an Apple in the months to come.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamBrowsers and Apps in 2012 &gt;&gt; Tim BrayIt's like this: The browser's doomed, be­cause apps are the fu­ture. Wait! Apps are doomed be­cause HTML5 is the fu­ture. I see some­thing al­most every day say­ing one or the other. Only it's mostly wrong.Keep this in mind for a little lower down. Read Bray's post first, though.Web Intents - The Next Wave Of Web Apps &gt;&gt; Ido's BlogOne of the greatest strengths of the web is that the the ease of linking allows innovative new apps to succeed without asking anyone else's permission - but up until now that hasn't applied to integrations between web apps. Web Intents is an emergingW3C specificationinspired by Android's Intents system that aims to solve the problems of communications.Here are someslides that explain the main conceptsfrom a pervious talk.Fabulous idea. Android Intents is a great concept.French privacy watchdog to quiz Google on policy change &gt;&gt; BBC NewsFrance's data protection watchdog has set up a meeting with Google to closely examine its controversial privacy policy.The search giant consolidated 60 privacy policies into one single agreement in March. The EU expressed concern over the legality and impact of the change.France's information commission, the CNIL, said it was not yet "totally satisfied" with Google's explanation of the amendments.iPhone market share in the USA: 50% of Q1 sales &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansEvans works for Enders Analysis. Here's a little bit from his latest report:Roughly 50% of all the smartphones sold in the USA in Q1 2012 were iPhones. This is very different to the global picture:Android is outselling iPhone by more than 2:1 on a global basis. But in the USA, Apple is massively outselling Android. That has obvious implications for where (mainly US-based) developers should be placing their efforts.More to come today.State of the Appnation - A Year of Change and Growth in U.S. Smartphones &gt;&gt; Nielsen WireRoughly a year ago when we summarized the state of smartphones at the Appnation conference, less than 40% of mobile subscribers in the U.S. had smartphones. Today, one in two mobile subscribers has a smartphone and that figure is moving steadily upwards.By most measures, it has been the year of the App once again, driven mostly by the rise of Android and iOS users who have more than doubled in a year and account for 88% of those who have downloaded an app in the past 30 days. In just a year, the average number of apps per smartphone has jumped 28%, from 32 apps to 41. Not only is the 2012 smartphone owner downloading more apps, they are increasingly spending more time using them vs. using the mobile web -- about 10% more than last year.How Mark Zuckerberg Hacked the Valley &gt;&gt; BusinessweekWorth reading today, of all days.Smartphone Market Shares after Q1 - It's the digital jamboree year of smartphone bloodbath &gt;&gt; Tomi AhonenAhonen isn't very happy about what's happening to Nokia. (He used to work there.) Also has calculations for smartphone installed base by platform, which puts Android top at 328m, then Symbian (299m) and iOS (178m) from a total of just over 1bn.Not every problem with Android should be called "fragmentation" &gt;&gt; PhonearenaAnd, that leads us to the number one issue cited as a problem: developer support. Developers claim the platform is too troublesome because of device specific variations, but the reality is that it's just that developers don't think they make enough money to justify that work. This could be because of the single listing and therefore single purchase of apps [for both phones and tablets], but it's really just a vicious cycle where developers don't put enough support into the ecosystem, and so the ecosystem doesn't support developers.Isn't it more likely that the developers evaluate the opportunity cost of each platform, and cut their cloth accordingly? If they don't find it worthwhile to test, say, Temple Run on 1,000+ devices, that's not their "fault". It's their rational judgement of investment return. If you can't make money, you won't spend money. It's the classic bootstrap challenge of every ecosystem. (Thanks @beardyweirdy666 for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Twitter says it will honour requests from users who do not want their online behaviour tracked, the company said on Thursday, in contrast with web companies such Google and Facebook whose business models rely heavily on collecting user data.Twitter announced that it will officially support "Do Not Track," a standardised privacy initiative that has been heavily promoted by the US Federal Trade Commission, online privacy advocates and Mozilla, the non-profit developer of the Firefox web browser.But some commentators have pointed out that the support also indicates that in the US the company presently does track where users go on the web through data collected from sites that have integrated Twitter "follow" buttons or widgets.Dustin Curtis, a web developer, pointed out that aposting on theTwitter blog on Thursdaysays that "We receive visit information when sites have integrated Twitter buttons or widgets, similar to what many other web companies – including LinkedIn, Facebook and YouTube – do when they're integrated into websites. By recognising which accounts are frequently followed by people who visit popular sites, we can recommend those accounts to others who have visited those sites within the last 10 days."Curtiscommented: "Twitter is recording your behaviour. It is transparently watching your movements and storing them somewhere for later use. Right now, that data will make better suggestions for accounts you might want to follow. But what other things can it be used for?"Twitter clarified that it does not intend to use the "suggested user" or tracking feature in Europe at present.However the adoption of the Do Not Track system could alleviate those fears. Some browsers, including Firefox, Microsoft's Internet Explorer and Apple's Safari, include a Do Not Track option that sends a line of code to websites indicating the user does not want to be tracked. But under current regulations, it is up to the website to honour the requests. Google has said it will implement a Do Not Track feature in its Chrome browser later this year.The Do Not Track announcement also coincides with Twitter's recent push to provide a more personalised service. Twitter says that when it recommends "tailored suggestions" based on a user's surfing history, it does not use the data for any other purpose."As always, we are committed to providing you with simple and meaningful choices about the information we collect to improve your Twitter experience," Twitter's director of growth and international, Othman Laraki, said in the blogpost. "For those who don't want to tailor Twitter, we offer ways to turn off this collection."Twitter's support for the initiative was first announced on Thursday by Ed Felten, the FTC's chief technology officer, during a panel in New York. The microblogging site later confirmed Felten's statement, adding in a tweet: "We applaud the FTC's leadership on DNT."Mozilla praised Twitter's move in a blogpost and noted that adoption rates for Do Not Track have risen steadily, to 8.6% of desktop users and 19% of mobile users."We're excited that Twitter now supports Do Not Track and global user adoption rates continue to increase, which signifies a big step forward for Do Not Track and the web," Mozilla said.Twitter's decision to get onboard with Do Not Track represents something of a balancing act for the six-year-old company, which has been closely scrutinised on how it can generate enough revenue to justify its multibillion-dollar valuation.Online tracking through bits of code embedded in websites known as "cookies" underpins the business models for many internet companies.Facebook, due to go public on Friday in the largest-ever US IPO, has been valued at $104bn, partially by investors who believe it can offer advertisers a platform for highly targeted ads based on perceived user interests. Google similarly generates billions annually by targeting ads based on what a user is searching for.Major online destinations that have endorsed Do Not Track include Yahoo, which said in March it would allow consumers "to express their ad targeting preferences to Yahoo" beginning this summer.Updated:added in clarification that "suggested user" system is not used outside the US.
Yey, Friday! Will you be purchasing Max Payne 3 today? Have a quick read ofour review, first. The other option is Cartoon Network Punchtime Exposion, a beat-'em-up featuring all your children's favourite cartoon stars. I think my household will have both...
Facebook has set the final price of shares in its landmark initial public offering at $38 (£24), the top of the price range it gave this week, as investors clamoured to buy into the social network. The move values the company at around $104bn.Facebook had raised the price range to $34-$38 a share from $28-$35 earlier this week. The company's shares will begin trading alongside Amazon, Apple and other tech giants on the Nasdaq stock exchange on Friday in what will be the biggest technology flotation ever.The $18.4bn share sale will be America's second biggest, behind Visa's $19.65bn sale in 2008. Founder Mark Zuckerberg, who owns 28.1% of Facebook shares, will instantly be propelled into the top tier of the super-rich.The consultancy Wealth-X estimates his net pre-IPO fortune at $18.95bn. When, and if, Facebook's shares take off on Friday, some are predicting a massive first-day rise, known as a "pop", that would make Zuckerberg richer than Larry Page or Sergey Brin, the Google founders whose wealth soared after their own IPO.The Los Angeles-based Wedbush Securities, the first firm to rate Facebook after it announced plans to sell shares, has set a 12-month price target of $44.Facebook increased the size of its iniitial IPO this week by 25%, or about 100m shares, to meet investor demand. Some of its largest shareholders and early investors seized the moment to raise the number of shares they are selling, adding a potential $3.8bn to the value of the sale.While Zuckerberg said he would be maintaining his holding, the hedge fund Tiger Global, run by 36-year-old New Yorker Chase Coleman, increased its sell-off from 3m to 23m shares. DST Group, which represents Russian investors such as Yuri Milner, is now planning to offload a quarter of its holding.Goldman Sachs announced that it would sell 29m shares, more than double its previous plans to sell 13m. Peter Thiel, a legendary Silicon Valley investor who was one of the firm's first big backers, is now planning to sell 17m shares, up from 8m.Zuckerberg will ring the Nasdaq stock exchange's opening bell in New York remotely from the company's headquarters, a 23-hectare complex in Menlo Park, California. The company's shares will then start trading with the stock symbol FB.The hype surrounding the launch has drawn scepticism from some analysts. Sam Hamadeh, founder of the analysis firm PrivCo, has argued that Facebook is worth a fraction of the estimates. In a note to potential investors, he valued Facebook at just $24-$25 a share.General Motors announced this week that it was pulling its advertisements off the social network, claiming that they were not working. GM is one of the world's largest advertisers and spent $1.83bn on ads in the US alone last year.The car firm spent just $10m on Facebook, a tiny fraction of the tech company's $3.7bn revenues. But the move was a PR blow for a company that intends to make most of its cash from advertisers.Nate Elliott, an analyst with the interactive marketing firm Forrester, wrote on his blog: "We wish we could predict this IPO would serve as a new beginning for Facebook's marketing offering, and that a new focus on becoming a grown-up business would inspire the company to put even half the energy into serving advertisers that it does into serving users."But we doubt Zuckerberg's going to wake up any day soon having acquired a taste for advertising, or even a proper understanding of it. And so every day more smart marketers are going to wake up and look for other places to dedicate their social resources."
Mark Zuckerberg, 28Friday is probably the biggest day of Zuckerberg's career since he launched what was then The Facebook at Harvard in February 2004. Facebook has gone on to be a global phenomenon, a Silicon Valley legend and even an Oscar-winning movie. Zuckerberg's co-founders have fallen by the wayside (and into piles of cash), and today he rules over the empire as chief executive officer and the firm's largest shareholder. When the company goes public Zuckerberg will face new levels of pressures and scrutiny. Only time will tell if he's the new Bill Gates or the next Jerry Yang.Wealth-X, a consultancy that specialises in high networth individuals, estimates his net pre-IPO fortune at $18.95bn. When, and if, Facebook's shares take off Friday, expect that number to soar. Some are expecting it to double, catapulting the already astronomically wealthy Zuckerberg into the very top tier of the super wealthy.The co-foundersDustin Moskovitz, 27Moskovitz co-founded Facebook with Zuckerberg and moved to Palo Alto with the Facebook boss in 2004. He left Facebook in 2008 to form a new software company, Asana, with Justin Rosenstein, an engineering manager at Facebook. Asana develops software applications Moskovitz hopes "will be to your work life what Facebook.com is to your social life".Wealth-X pegs his pre-IPO wealth at $4.8bn, and he holds a 7.5% stakein Facebook.Eduardo Saverin, 30The Brazilian-born co-founder originally served as Facebook's chief financial officer and business manager. After a prolonged dispute with Zuckerberg, his 34.4% stake in Facebook was diluted to 5%. He reportedly sold much of his stake in the company in private transactions, raising money to invest in various technology start-ups including Qwiki and Jumio. The terms of his legal settlement with Facebook were undisclosed, and he is not listed among the company's major stakeholders; his current holdings in Facebook are unclear.Saverin spends most of his time in Singapore, and it recently emerged he has given up his US citizenship, though he has now insisted that this is not a tax avoiding move and he will pay the estimated $39m in US taxes on his windfall from the IPO.Wealth-X estimates Saverin's net worth is at least $ 2.7bnChris Hughes, 28The final co-founder has reinvented himself as a media savvy political operator. Hughes clearly has an eye for rising stars. In early 2007, he left Facebook to work in Chicago on the then-senator Barack Obama's new-media campaign. In March this year Hughes became the owner of The New Republic, the venerable liberal-leaning politics and art magazine. It's not clear what his Facebook holding is worth, but it's believed to be under 1%.The mentorSean Parker, 33Parker was still a teenager when he co-founded Napster, the music sharing service that sparked a revolution. He spotted Facebook's potential early and was a mentor to Zuckerberg, becoming the social network's founding president, helping attract investors.Wealth-X pegs his pre-IPO at $2.5bn, including a 3.9% stake in Facebook.The bossSheryl K Sandberg, 42A powerhouse professional who is increasingly becoming the grown-up face of Facebook. Sandberg has stints at the US treasury, Google and McKinsey on her resume and recently held a fundraising dinner at her home for Obama. She is late to the Facebook party, having joined in 2008, but her 0.1% holding in the company already puts her net worth at over $69m.The investorsReid Hoffman, 44Hoffman is a serial fortune maker worth over $2.35bn, according to Wealth-X. He counts PayPal and professional networking website LinkedIn among his greatest hits and is a partner at Greylock Partners, one of Silicon Valley's top venture capital firms. An early investor in Facebook, he is believed to retain a 0.2%.Marc L Andreessen, 40Another Silicon Valley legend, Andreessen was co-author of Mosaic, the first widely used web browser, and co-founder of Netscape Communications, whose 1995 IPO was seen as the starting gun for the last dotcom boom. Andreessen-Horowitz, his venture capital firm, counts Foursquare, Groupon, Skype and Zynga among its investments as well as Facebook.Peter A Thiel, 44The former CEO and co-founder of PayPal was an early investor in Facebook and currently sits on the company's board. A libertarian philanthropist, Thiel is widely seen as one of the smartest men in Silicon Valley.Wealth-X estimates his wealth at $1.45bn.Elevation PartnersBono, 52, is very keen not to see Beautiful Day headlines when Facebook's shares go public. The U2 front man is a partner in the media and tech investment group that owns 2.2% of Facebook. His PR people went on the offensive before the IPO to point out that the firm invests for other people, not just its partners, and any winnings would be widely distributed.• This article was amended on 18 May 2012 because it described Facebook as "a global phenomena". This has been corrected to "a global phenomenon".• This article was amended on 18 May 2012. In the original it said Netscape's IPO happened in 2005. This has been corrected.
Eduardo Saverin imagines himself a "citizen of the world". His is an unofficial description, but one that an elite class of super-rich people and multinational companies increasingly take for granted.Saverin's name stood out when the US government published its latest list of Americans who had renounced their citizenship. He is the co-founder of Facebook, owner of about 4% of the company; and with this week's public offering of shares, he is about to move from rich to super-rich.But apparently, not sufficiently rich. Despite hisclaim to the New York Times– an example of PR backfilling if ever there was one – it's blatantly obvious that taxes were deeply implicated in Saverin's move, which took place last year, but has only now been publicized.He's apparently paidsometaxes on his windfall, based on a Facebook valuation from 2011 that is certainly much lower than the IPO price will be Friday; if he'd stayed in the US and sold shares after the IPO, he'd be required to pay capital gains taxes on the value at the time of the sale, which, based on prior speculation, is likely to be much higher than the offering price.Now, he's home free, because in Singapore, where he's spent much of his time during the past several years, there are no capital gains taxes.Perhaps the difference in capital gains and other taxes amounts to a mere $100m, as the Times suggested, or $600m – the latter based on the likely value of his shares this week (and on an assumption that he'd sell them at once). To almost everyone, this is real money, even to someone who stands to have wealth in excess of$4bn.Saverin's self-serving move has drawn the contempt it deserves from a number of commentators, though much of the criticism has been inaccurate in some details.Farhad Manjoo's blog post, entitled "What Eduardo Saverin Owes America (Hint: Nearly Everything)", is one such blast against the Brazilian native who now professes allegiance, sort of, to Singapore. Manjoo pointed out that Saverin would almost certainly be a nonentity had it not been for what he gained after his family's move to the US from his native land. Naturally, meanwhile, this new monument to selfishness isa hero to the crowdthat loathes taxes in general, but especially progressive taxation.Saverin's case should be seen in context. Tax havens are not new. The super-rich have been relocating for decades. Increasingly, however, these people and any number of corporate entities are making it plain that they now belong to a new elite: a global class whose only serious obligation is to its own interests. And as beggar-thy-neighbor economic policies spread, these nomads can always find regimes that will cater to them.So, it is not remotely surprising thatApple, the most valuable company on the planet, is also a world-class tax avoider, as the New York Times reported recently. Apple is far from alone in using multinational operations and a variety of corporate fronts to reduce the taxes it pays, especially at home. But its strategies lend a certain hollowness to one of its slogans – that its products are proudly "Designed by Apple in California", even if they're built in China. Like so many other global enterprises, Apple spends millions on lawyers and accountants whose sole job is to use various nations' laws as gears in their own financial engines.It's pointless to suggest to the Apples and Severins of our world that they would never have achieved such heights of prosperity had it not been for, among many other things, America's economic and legal systems (among other benefits they've enjoyed). Contrary to conservative dogma, the US has nurtured wealth creation. And our government, despite many misguided policies (including some tax policies), goes to extraordinary lengths to take care of the interests of the top 1% of the 1%. But why should the Apples and Severins care, when as "global citizens", they can work the system and get more of what they want?Perhaps the rest of us should care. Not because these people and companies lack even a shred of loyalty to the nations that helped make them what they are. We should care because the rest of us, ultimately, bear the tax burdens the new global elite shirks.There's no easy way to do anything about this. But we should ask ourselves whether we're satisfied with a world where the global elite enjoys its special perks as it pursues wealth and power, but makes everyone else foot the bill.
Further to articles from John Prescott (For me, life is Tweet, 16 May) and Charles Arthur (What a lot of characters, 16 May), I feel I should point out the glaringly obvious but unstated conclusion. Twitter offers a remarkable opportunity for anyone to have their say – to comment, chatter, criticise and yes, break news, whether of personal or global interest, yet the audience is greatly overstated. There may be 10m user accounts in the UK, but we learn from Charles Arthur that perhaps as many as two-thirds are inactive.Prescott's comparison with the 9 million national newspapers sold each day thus seems to hold less water than the bottles of beer he wrote about – if you count readership figures, rather than just copies sold, national newspapers' daily reach is much higher&nbsp;(over 20m). Furthermore, though news does indeed move at the speed of a mouse, newspapers are so often the beneficiaries of this, proving to be often the source and destination for much social media traffic. Our&nbsp;members (which, of course, include the Guardian Media Group) provide not just breaking news but also verification, analysis, opinion and a forum for discussion. They will continue to set the agenda and play a vital role in society and our culture. As your editorial implied (In praise of tweets, 16&nbsp;May), people may enjoy dipping in and out of Twitter, but many more still like to bathe in newspaper content.Rufus Olins@rufusolinsChief executive,Newspaper Marketing Agency@nma_uk• The best tweets mirror the most effective letters (Editorial, 16.5) – 76 characters.Keith FlettLondon
The Metropolitan Police is to use software that can extract mobile phone contents, including call records and past GPS location data, even if the SIM is locked, as part of a new scheme to speed up crime investigation.But it will not necessarily be able to break onboard encryption on devices, such as that used by RIM's BlackBerry smartphones, which were blamed for being used to coordinate some of the 2011 riots in the UK.The Aceso software, from Southampton-based Radio Tactics, will be used by boroughs across the capital and is intended to enable police officers investigating crimes to capture data from mobile phones in ways that are "evidentially sound" – that is, can be produced in court – so phone owners do not have to give up the devices for the duration of a case.Other forces around the UK already use similar or the same software.Speaking on Tuesday, Bernard Hogan-Howe, the Met's new Commissioner, said that the force's technology was out of date and needed fresh investment. "If we ended up with less people but better technology, and ended up being better at fighting crime, I'd say that wouldn't be a bad thing," he was quoted as saying.The key use is expected to be tackling people suspected of petty crimes such as burglary. At present, suspects' phones have to be sent for data extraction to a central or outsourced laboratory. That can slow down processing of alleged crimes, said Andy Gill, chief executive of Radio Tactics.Another key use would be to prove disputed ownership of phones by allowing police to access the content if a phone is suspected of being stolen, and to let witnesses to crimes submit videos or photos as evidence and then retain their phone, rather than having to hand it in as evidence.Even if the SIM is locked, the new software can bypass it if the police apply to the relevant network operator for a "Pin unlock code". Gill said that the use of such PUCs is, however, regulated by the Regulation of Investigatory Power Act (RIPA) and the Police and Criminal Evidence Act (PACE). He emphasised that the software "is not a hacking tool": "that isn't how it's used," he said. "It's an evidence-gathering tool."Stephen Kavanagh, deputy assistant commissioner of the Metropolitan Police Service, said that "mobile phones and other devices are increasingly being used in all levels of criminal activity. When a suspect is arrested and found with a mobile phone that we suspect may have been used in crime, traditionally we submit it to our digital forensic laboratory for analysis. Therefore, a solution located within the boroughs that enables trained officers to examine devices and gives immediate access to the data in that handset is welcomed."He said that having the ability to act on "forensically-sound, time-critical information, from SMS to images contained on a device quickly gives us an advantage in combating crime, notably in terms of identifying people of interest quickly and progressing cases more efficiently".Gill said that as more people are using smartphones – latest estimates suggest they are used by 53% of the mobile-owning population – there is significantly greater amount of data available to the police from the phones. GPS location data, which is often collected automatically by the phone, "means that you can retrospectively make qualified assumptions about where the phone – and presumably the person – has been".BlackBerry devices were "an interesting challenge", Gill said: "they're built from the ground up to be secure, which isn't true for other phones which are more aimed at the consumer." The onboard encryption on BlackBerry devices means that if it is used, no useful data can be extracted from it without the decryption key. "But from day to day, at the more consumer end, it's quite routine for people not to use the maximum level of security," he noted.Gill said that the more rapid processing of phones during the arrest and charging process should mean that the police will rapidly see a significant saving in costs and time.
British Olympic hopeful Tom Daley is hoping to cash in on his rising celebrity status with his own iPhone diving app launching on Friday.Tom Daley DiveThe Tom Daley Dive is aimed at his estimated 1 million fans as well as mobile gamers and diving enthusiasts and has been developed by a firm set up by former London Evening Standard managing director Mike Anderson.Over rising levels of difficulty, gamers are scored according to their ability to copy 79 of Daley's dives ranging from a simple tuck to a more difficult twister using the iPhone touchscreen.Daley has a huge following among teenagers after his star performance as a 14-year-old in the Beijing Olympics and is tipped for lucrative David Beckham-style promotional deals for sportswear and male grooming products following this summer's Games.On Twitter, where he has almost 225,000 followers, he told fans he was also about to launch a book, giving an early indication of the buzz his management is expecting.Earlier this year, concerns were raised about Daley's media commitments with the British Diving performance director, Alexei Evangulov, saying he needed to reduce his promotional activities and focus on training if he was to stand a chance of beating the Chinese, who he said were training "three times harder".Daley said he wanted to develop the app because "there are no good diving games out there". He modelled for the graphics in the game and signed off every stage of the development. "If the game helps raise awareness of diving and gets people excited about the Olympics, I'll be really pleased," he added.Anderson, who also worked at News International in a senior commercial role, set upChelsea Apps Factorytwo years ago and is developing a niche in platform-neutral apps for consumer and non-consumer clients including Vodafone, which developed an app for Tate Britain, and CNBC, which ordered one for the G8 summit in Davos.He said he it was the "perfect time" to release the app as Daley was "tipped to be one of the biggest stars of London 2012".Chelsea Apps has also been commissioned to build theofficial app for the Queen's diamond jubilee pageanton the Thames.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook
Lots of us surf using unsecured Wi-Fi networks, and where I live in the US, Starbucks doesn't require a pass code and the Wi-Fi is up 24/7 regardless of whether the shop is open. Are there any good free VPNs for privacy in such a situation? I'm using Cocoon with Firefox, but I don't have the means to compare it with alternatives.Dave NullA VPN, or virtual private network, creates a virtual "tunnel" of encrypted data running over the public internet. VPNs first became popular as a way of connecting different parts of a company without the high cost of leasing dedicated phone lines. Secure encryption was needed to protect corporate data, and one consequence was that nobody else – internet service providers (ISPs), snoopers etc – could see what sort of traffic was inside the data stream.Today, many individuals are using VPNs for the security and privacy they provide. Some people use VPNs at Wi-Fi hotspots to prevent snoopers from collecting private information. Others use VPNs at home as a way to get around ISPs and service providers blocking certain websites, which may include Pirate Bay, Facebook and BBC iPlayer. Of course, cybercriminals also use VPNs and anonymous proxy servers, thoughTormight be a more likely prospect.The simplest type of VPN is one that runs at the application level, typically inside a web browser. In your case, this isCocoon, which is available for different browsers (Firefox and Internet Explorer) and different operating systems (Microsoft Windows, Apple's Mac OS X and Linux). The drawback is that it only protects what's in the browser. If you were to run another browser alongside Firefox, or a separate email program, the data from these other programs would not be protected by Cocoon's VPN.The most popular VPN for personal users –which I mentioned in response to your similar question in 2010– is probably AnchorFree'sHotspot Shield. Like many other cheap or free VPNs, Hotspot Shield is based on open sourceOpenVPNcode, so it encrypts all the internet traffic on your PC: every web browser, email program, and so on. It supports Windows, Mac OS X, and Apple iOS devices, with Android to come.The drawbacks with Hotspot Shield are that, as with Cocoon and some other VPNs, the free versions are supported by showing adverts, though you can avoid these by upgrading to a paid-for version. Hotspot Shield also switches your home page and default search engine, though you can switch these back. This can be annoying and has prompted some users to look elsewhere, but you can pay AnchorFree $29.95 per year for itsHotspot Shield Eliteservice, or if you use it for travelling, buy 20 one-day passes for $10.There are, of course, dozens of alternative VPNs, and there's a big list onthe internet censorship wiki. The ones worth considering includeSecurityKiss,CyberGhost, andIt's Hidden.  It's Hidden's servers are based in the Netherlands, which may not suit US users.One of the features of a VPN is that your internet connection appears to come from wherever the server is based: it acts as your proxy on the internet. This can confuse websites that do a lot of geolocation and personalisation, such as Google, which will serve up versions in the local language. This can, of course, be useful. Europeans can use a US-based VPN server to watch videos that are otherwise blocked in our region, while those who live outside the UK can use a UK-based VPN to watch TV programmes on, for example, the BBC's iPlayer. Indeed, AnchorFree producedExpatShieldfor Windows, so that pining Brits could get a UK IP and access content available only in UK from anywhere.If this kind of thing is important to you, thenHide My Ass!now offers a Pro VPN service that supports different protocols (so you can use OpenVPN for maximum security or PPTP to stream video, for example) and access to 247 servers in43 countries. So, yes, you can actually get a fast IP address in Japan. However, the service costs $11.52 per month or $78.66 per year.TheBest VPN Providercomparison website lets you select from dropdown menus such as Destination Country, Protocol and Price/Month to find potential VPN suppliers. However, it only suggests commercial services.Most if not all VPN providers have lots of terms and conditions that forbid you from doing bad things, including spamming, and say that they will co-operate with police and other authorities if required. If you plan to use peer-to-peer file-sharing services such as bittorrent, check that these are allowed under the T&amp;Cs. Also check how long they keep records. TorrentFreak has a good article onWhich VPN Providers Really Take Anonymity Seriously?Using a VPN protects you from snooping in your local coffee shop and by your ISP, but the VPN provider is decoding your datastream and putting it on the internet, so it sees everything. It has to be a company you trust.Also bear in mind that while your ISP cannot see what is in your data stream, it can certainly see you sending lots of encrypted traffic to Hotspot Shield, Hide My Ass! or whatever. So much business traffic now goes via VPNs that I don't expect this is particularly noticeable, but ISPs could filter the obvious free VPNs.There's an increasing tendency for websites to use the https Secure Sockets Layer (SLL) system, shown by a padlock in the browser, and this already encrypts data to protect it from casual snoopers. However, the appearance of "session jacking" software such as the Firesheep add-on for Firefox means a VPN is probably a good idea when using public Wi-Fi hotspots for important data.But it's also a good idea to start getting familiar with VPNs because of government attempts to monitor people's internet use. If this becomes a reality in the UK, then perhaps we should all start using VPNs all the time. Article 19 of the UN'sUniversal Declaration of Human Rightssays: "Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right includes freedom to hold opinions without interference and to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers." The internet has more or less delivered that right, and using a VPN may be the simplest way to preserve it.• This article was amended on 20 February 2013. The original said that CyberGhost's servers were in Germany, which may not suit US users. CyberGhost now has servers in about 20 countries, including the US.
Move over, Facebook. Pinterest, the social site that lets people "pin" pictures and content to create collections of interest, has become the latest company to be valued at more than $1bn (£630m), following a $100m round of funding.While estimates of the effective valuation implied by the investment vary between $1bn and $1.5bn, they highlight the fact that Pinterest has already discovered a business model in which it collects an "affiliate" payment on purchases people make via the site.The new valuation is at least a fivefold leap in value since October 2011, when a previous financing round put it at $200m.The company has shot to stardom in the past few months to become the 16th most-visited site in the US, according to measurement company Alexa. In April it had more than 20 million users, up from 1 million in July 2011, according to ComScore, another ranking company.Its traffic soared after August 2011 when it was named one of the 50 best websites of 2011 by Time magazine, and by December it was getting 11m visitors worldwide a week, according to Hitwise.Now it hasreceived a fresh round of fundingled by the Japanese online retailing giant Rakuten, and with particiapants including its existing investors Andreessen Horowitz, Bessemer Venture Partners, and FirstMark Capital, and a number of angel investors.In October 2011 it received a $27m funding round that valued it at $200m. The site only opened for business in March 2010.Although the company has not disclosed its revenues, they are probably less than $10m according tomodelling carried out in March by Rags Srinivasan, a strategic marketing expert. But with user numbers still growing fast, that could be advancing rapidly.A growing number of brands are using Pinterest to advertise their wares effectively for free, with the aim of driving sales via the displays. That could offer a future means for Pinterest to charge, either for position or visibility.However, legal experts have queried the site's liability for copyright lawsuits because it effectively allows the copying of images that are often copyrighted. While some brands may not mind if it drives sales, photographers and commercial organisations could be less pleased.Rakuten has invested in a number of online retailing companies around the world, including the British retailer Play.com."While some may see e-commerce as a straightforward vending machine-like experience, we believe it is a living process where both retailers and consumers can communicate, discover, and curate to make the experience more entertaining," said Rakuten chief executive Hiroshi Mikitani."We see tremendous synergies between Pinterest's vision and Rakuten's model for e-commerce."In an interview with the FT, Mikitani revealed that he had also become an e-commerce advisor to the site, and said: "Having a good grasp of images is becoming more important for e-commerce. It's more straightforward and appealing to the instinct of human beings than text. That is the strength of Pinterest, I think."He added that Rakuten had wanted to fund the entire round, but Pinterest's board already had agreements with existing investors.He was enthusiastic about the prospects because, he said, traffic going to shopping sites from Pinterest would have high conversion rates [to sales] because people would have high interest in products.Of the copyright risks, he said: "I think, on the whole, they will overcome those issues. Their intention is not to damage any brand."Mikitani added that Rakuten-owned sites would in future use the Pinterest "Pin it" badge to add content."Pinterest is the future – we know we are going to have a more tight integration for all the e-commerce sites we have."
It shouldn't come as any surprise that Ni No Kuni is a thing of astounding beauty. Developed by skilled adventure specialist Level-5, it features characters and landscapes drawn by the legendary Studio Ghibli, the animation house repsonsible for movies such as Spirited Away and Howl's Moving Castle.As a result, this fairly traditional role-playing game genuinely looks and feels like an interactive Hayao Miyazaki masterpiece. Released in Japan last year to hugely positive reviews, it is now being localised for a global release. We won't get the game in the West until early 2013, but judging by the localised demo I have played, the wait will be worth it.The story follows a young boy named Oliver who, stricken with grief by the death of his mother, is visited by a goblin-like fairy named Drippy who tells him there is a chance to bring her back to life. The creature reveals that there is another world existing in parallel with our own, and that every inhabitant of our reality has a soul twin in the adjacent dimension.Oliver can reanimate his mother if he crosses over and saves her doppelganger. Drippy also gives him a magic book, stuffed with dozens of different types of spells to aid in his quest. And then they're off.What follows then, is Oliver's journey through the Ni No Kuni – the other world of the title. Players are free to roam the expansive landscape, made up of several interconnected islands, travelling on foot or via galleon and eventually on the back of a dragon.In typical RPG style, the rolling hills, vast woodlands and icy mountains are peppered with towns and mission locations  to explore – and waiting somewhere out there is the eponymous White Queen, who seeks to thwart Oliver's quest.With its central concept of a child alone in a parallel universe, the game is enormously reminiscent of Ghibli's global hit, Spirited Away. Many players will no doubt assume that the animation house had a hand in the scripting, but apparently that's not the case."The game concept was entirely generated by Level-5," explains the studio's CEO, Akihiro Hino. "The whole idea of having two worlds already existed before we asked Ghibli to work with us on the animation. But afterwards, we requested that they review all the characters, setting and art designs, everything we'd originally prepared, so that it would be fitting to their style."And indeed, the look of the game is unmistakable. With lush colouring, fine detail, imaginative monsters and elegant steam punk architecture, Ni No Kuni captures everything we love about the Ghibli aesthetic. In the exploration scenes, we get that glorious, somewhat hazy look, with gentle winds depicted as swirling white lines and the shadows of clouds rolling over.In the demo I saw, we also visited one densely crowded city, Hamelin, populated by pig-like soldiers and crammed with looming metallic buildings. In a cinematic sequence, a royal procession begins, and the buildings are moved out of the way on track systems. There's that sense of a living town in which everything is alive and transformable – such a lovely Ghibli staple.Naturally, the game employs cell-shaded animation to capture that look, but according to Hino this is a whole new approach to the style."We've worked with cell-shading a lot, ever since Dark Cloud, so we are comfortable with it," he says. "But Ni No Kuni uses a very advanced cell-shading technique. A lot of times you get these awkward shadows cast on the faces of characters, but we have an engine that removes those automatically to create a really hand-drawn style."Throughout the adventure, Oliver can recruit new characters to his party, each with their own strengths and abilities. During our demo, we meet Esther, a young girl who specialises in magic and healing and Swaine, an older boy.The combat system mixes both action RPG and turn-based mechanics to involving and intuitive effect. For a start, there are no random monster encounters. All enemies can be seen as you explore the landscape, and are easily avoided. In fact, if you're wielding powerful weapons and a bulging spell book, they'll leg it from you anyway.When you do engage a monster, the view switches to a battle mode like a traditional JRPG. Here though, you can move around the arena, darting in and out of combat proximity – replacing the staid, static feel of some turn-based systems with something much more dynamic.Players can select between members of their party who are able to attack the enemies themselves, or can call on one of their "familiars", small creatures with differing elemental attacks. Characters can carry up to three familiars at any time, and using these tactically is a key element.From here, a simple menu offers three key options: attack, defense or "cut loose" – the latter providing a powerful special move. Each one takes a certain amount of time to complete, shown by an onscreen dial, and all can be cancelled out at any time in response to enemy actions. For example, if you see a monster preparing to deliver a major special or magical attack, your own attack can be canned in favour of a hasty defense.It's reasonably intricate, especially as you can also hand out detailed orders to other party members via another menu screen. But there are also auto buttons, allowing you to mechanise the whole process.And however you play it, it's a compelling strategic challenge, especially with the major boss characters that require finely-tuned teamwork. At the close of our demo in Hamelin, we have to fight a giant porcine mech named Porco Grosso (a nod to the Studio Ghiblie movie Porco Rosso – apparently there are lots of these little references in the game), and its strong armour rules out weapon attacks, instead requiring a varied magical onslaught.Level-5 has apparently been scrupulous in its localisation, attempting to capture the flavour and humour of other languages. For the English version of the game, Drippy is voiced by a Welsh actor and his dialogue is peppered with local vernacular.At one point during the royal processing scene, Oliver is almost run over by the prince's barge – "run for your ruddy lives!" shouts Drippy; a somewhat surreal moment. Apparently, the Japanese version of the character has a heavy Osaka accent, which is often used in anime to denote a "yokel" comedy character. You can take what you like from this.Sadly, there's no Xbox 360 version – originally produced for the Japanese market where Microsoft's machine has failed to garner a truly mass audience, Level-5 chose instead to concentrate on PS3 and the DS (where players can draw certain icons on screen to perform key spells taken from Oliver's magic book) – and out of those, only the PS3 version is coming to the West.A PS Vita port is possible though: "It depends on how the console does," says Hino. "But it is something to think about."As the Kingdom Hearts series has shown, marrying role-playing games and well-known animators is a smart way of increasing your potential audience – Ni No Kuni will almost certainly attract Ghibli fanatics. But it feels like there's so much more to this than commercial nouse.Seemingly, both studios have learned a lot from working together. "Studio Ghibli didn't have much knowledge of game culture when we started," says Hino. "We had to teach them about game production."But what we learned from them was the art of telling story through animation. They supervised all the storyboards and gave us direction in intricate detail, right down to the smallest moves. It has allowed the game to exert the feel of a Ghibli production."Perhaps in future, Ghibli will absorb game production into its remit, working – like Disney – on movies and game conversions simultaneously. For now though, Ni No Kuni is as close as we can get to living within one of the studio's astonishing worlds.• Ni No Kuni will be released by Namco Bandai on PS3 in spring 2013
A selection of 21 new and notable apps for you today:London 2012: Official Join In AppThe London Organising Committee of the Olympic Games and Paralympic Games (LOCOG for short) has launched its first app: an official guide to joining in this summer's sporting celebrations. That means event listings, the route of the Olympic torch relays, maps and updates during the Games.Android / iPhoneSchemerGoogle's Schemer social app has made the leap from Android to iPhone, providing a way to plan "schemes" with friends – basically "doing more awesome stuff" and telling friends about it. Naturally, it ties into the Google+ social network.iPhoneFacebook Pages ManagerAt the time of writing (8am BST) this is only available in the New Zealand App Store, but that generally means it'll roll out around the world as the day goes on. It's Facebook's new iPhone app for people who run Pages on the social network – a separate app to post, monitor activity and dig into Insights analytics.iPhoneRoamzHere's an app jumping from iPhone to Android. Roamz describes itself as "social goggles for the real world", identifying places, events and activities around your current location, pulling in data from Facebook, Foursquare, Instagram and Twitter.AndroidScore! Classic GoalsDeveloper First Touch Publishing makes very impressive football games for iOS. Its new title is a different spin though: a "soccer based puzzle game" that challenges you to recreate famous goals from the last four decades. There are 80 goals at launch.iPhone / iPadSonic The Hedgehog 4 Episode IISega's speedy hedgehog returns to iOS in the latest retro remake for Apple devices, with Sonic and squirrelly chum Tales taking on Dr. Eggman and Metal Sonic. Sega says this game has an "all-new engine" to make the action smoother than previous titles.iPhone / iPadiZettleMobile payments startup Square has been making waves in the US, but in Europe we have our own equivalent: iZettle. It lets retailers take card payments through an app, and has just launched in private beta in the UK. A form in the app lets you request an invite.iPhone / iPadThirst for TwitterThere's plenty of blog buzz around new iPad app Thirst for Twitter, which aims to suck down all the tweets from the people you follow, then highlight the most interesting and relevant ones in digest format. It promises to "tell you what you've missed and bubble up what's interesting to you".iPadKids of the UmmahThis children's iPad app is all about "exploring the global Muslim community", through a range of 26 cute avatar characters who explain the alphabet, Muslim names and cities in English and Arabic.iPadSky News ArabiaArabic-language TV news channel Sky News Arabia has a new app rolling out on major smartphones, offering videos, news, photos and – soon – live streaming. It's the work of London agency Grapple.Android / BlackBerry / iPhone / NokiaFotopedia MoroccoPhotographic service Fotopedia has a new, lavish iOS app providing a tourist's guide to Morocco. That means full-screen images of cities, scenery and culture from photographer Jacques Bravo, plus interactive maps and a trip builder feature to plan visits.iPhone / iPadCousin Jacks: Cornish MiningIf British staycations are more your thing, how about wandering around Cornwall looking at mines? Cousin Jacks: Cornish Mining is a polished tourism app focused on the Cornish Mining World Heritage Site, with audio trails, walks and maps.iPhoneAwareness! for Etymotic ProExcellent audio app Awareness! is about automatically adjusting your headphone volume based on noise from the external world – for example a phone ringing, car beeping or person asking you something. Now there's a separate version optimised for the Etymotic Pro headsets.iPhoneFlexiShareTradeThis is a new app for retail investors, helping them track and analyse shares in real-time, digging deep into stats from the major markets. Heatmaps, charts and a Twitter feed add to the appeal.iPhoneCircus AtariGaming industry veteran Atari is retooling itself as a mobile publisher, with Circus Atari its latest release. This involves launching a clown from a cannon, popping balloons and grabbing coins and power-ups as he flies up into the air.iPhone / iPadFacadeOne social networking app to rule them all? Facade pulls in all the social networks with the aim of helping people view updates and post their own from one place.AndroidThe Berenstain Bears and the Big Spelling BeeOceanhouse Media's latest book-app for children starring the Berenstain Bears is all about spelling, and the company is offering a free teacher's guide on its website to help educators get the most out of the app if using it in their classes.iPhone / iPadLet's Color!This "living, breathing coloring book" is the work of Lazoo, whose impressive Squiggles app I covered earlier this month. Here, kids get to colour in 18 digital pages, with 16 more available in-app. Once done, images start to animate, and can be saved to show family and friends.iPadColor VacuumMore colours for kids here, from new developer Curious Hat. The idea is to get children looking at colours in the world around them, and capturing them using the iPhone or iPad's camera.iPhone / iPadBoom BahIt's a busy day for new kid-apps. This iPad book is based on the printed Boom Bah, aimed at 2-5 year-olds. It tells the story of an animal band, with children able to tap on the screen to "play the tings, bangs, clangs, bangs, bongs" and other sounds.iPadScotland YardRavensburger has turned its popular Scotland Yard board game into an iOS version, as you try to find the missing Mister X in London. Inventive features include multiplayer with voice chat.iPhone / iPad
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamLegacy computer errors dog child support payments &gt;&gt; UKAuthorityWhile tens of thousands of cases had transferred from the CSCS system to the CS2 system, the correct arrears balance did not transfer with them. This was because the information had been archived and, on transfer to CS2, these balances were not picked up by the system, the NAO [National Audit Office] said. In addition, a number of cases managed off the primary IT systems, on a separate clerical case database, did not have opening arrears balances entered onto that database. In compiling the accounts the commission has estimated that this would have led to an understatement of the overall arrears balance by £59m at 31 March 2011.That's £59m owed to parents. Real people affected by real mistakes.How the professor who fooled Wikipedia got caught by Reddit &gt;&gt; The AtlanticA great read, but important too for understanding why some parts of the internet are weak for fact-checking:If there's a simple lesson in all of this, it's that hoaxes tend to thrive in communities which exhibit high levels of trust. But on the Internet, where identities are malleable and uncertain, we all might be well advised to err on the side of skepticism.Android Fragmentation Visualized &gt;&gt; OpenSignalMapsFragmentation matters to the entire Android community: users, developers, OEMs, brands &amp; networks. It's a blessing and a curse.The Blessing. Fragmentation allows users to take their pick from thousands of devices. You can choose from phones with 3D screens, projectors, CDMA, GSM, or even CDMA &amp; GSM. You may not care that Tag Heuer has made an Android phone but at least one person does (and they use OpenSignalMaps). It's a triumph for Android that as a single OS it can target so many markets.The Curse. The proliferation of devices with their associated screen sizes, internal hardware and custom ROMs creates some difficulties. We spend a lot of time making the app presentable (or at less functional) on exotic devices - this is the most common request we get from app users.Amazing graphs. The number of devices, screens and resolutions is boggling.Introducing the Knowledge Graph: things, not strings &gt;&gt; Official Google BlogTake a query like [taj mahal]. For more than four decades, search has essentially been about matching keywords to queries. To a search engine the words [taj mahal] have been just that--two words.But we all know that [taj mahal] has a much richer meaning. You might think of one of the world's most beautiful monuments, or a Grammy Award-winning musician, or possibly even a casino in Atlantic City, NJ. Or, depending on when you last ate, the nearest Indian restaurant. It's why we've been working on an intelligent model--in geek-speak, a "graph"--that understands real-world entities and their relationships to one another: things, not strings.Google is in effect moving to the semantic web. It's a huge move. Our takehere.Why Tech CEOs seem so dumb &gt;&gt; BuzzfeedBeing wildly successful in tech is about anticipating change, and altering the status quo; being the 14th chief executive of a stodgy old major tech company is about extracting as much value as you can from the success it's already had. The CEOs of the Time Warners and Sonys and Yahoos and RIMs and even Microsofts of the world are experts only on their respective companies' existing businesses. They say things that sound stupid to us because they're not us, and because their goal for tech (to maximize profits at their companies) is not the same as ours (to get more awesome stuff that makes our lives better). They're not even really talking to us. They're talking to their boards.Google could be inviting more friends to Nexus party &gt;&gt; GigaomThe Wall Street Journalreports that the new strategy will accompany the launch of Android 5.0 - to be known as Jelly Bean, in keeping with Google's sweet tooth for Android code names - and involves several Android vendors. Several devices, including both tablets and unlocked smartphones, will be sold directly through Google's Web site and through some unnamed retail partners.Retail partners could be interesting (does it just mean "Amazon"?) Selling devices through Google's own site worked so well for the original Nexus One thatGoogle dropped it within four months. It said: "The web store.. remained a niche channel for early adopters, but it's clear that many customers like a hands-on experience before buying a phone, and they also want a wide range of service plans to chose from." Anything changed since May 2010? (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)Sprint defends iPhone deal &gt;&gt; WSJ[Sprint CEO Dan] Hesse pointed shareholders to other benefits of the iPhone, noting that the device helped provide protection against litigation over Google Inc.'s Android operating software and allowed it to trim a costly loyalty program put in place to prevent customers from leaving for other carriers offering the device. Sprint activated 3.3m iPhones over the past two quarters, compared with 11.9m at AT&amp;T Inc. and 7.5m at Verizon Wireless."If you have any doubt go look at T-Mobile's net subscriber numbers," Hesse told shareholders. T-Mobile USA is the only major carrier without a deal to carry the iPhone and has lost contract customers in 10 straight quarters.Sprint doesn't expect its iPhone investment to pay off before 2015. Even so it seems to think it better than T-Mobile's position. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)Thailand signs the world's largest educational tablet distribution deal &gt;&gt; Digital TrendsThailand reportedly also looked at some of China's largest tablet manufacturers, such as Lenovo and Huawei, but the pricing per unit was too high for its budget. Conversely, a lower bid from another company was offered but rejected by the government, perhaps due to less specs for the value.The select device model, priced at $81 per unit, is the Scopad SP0712: An 7-inch Android device running the 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich operating system. It's also got 1GB of RAM, 8GB of internal memory, 1.5 GHz single core CPU, and comes in four color options: Red, blue, silver, and gold. Shenzhen Scope will also set 30 help centers around the Southeast Asian country to provide user support specifically for tablets received from the campaign. Not too shabby of specs for tablets for elementary school students.Now consider what those childrens' reaction will be to a standard PC when they're older. (Thanks @undersinged for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
The Gruffalo deserves its status as one of the most popular children's books in the world: beautiful illustrations, but beautiful words too.The rhythm and rhyme of the story demands to be read with monstery relish, and there's a delightful touch of gruesomeness. Owl ice cream, anyone? It's a marvellous piece of work.How about a Gruffalo app, then? I've lost count of the number of times fellow parents, after finding out my job is to write about apps, have asked if the Gruffalo's turned-out toes have wandered onto iOS or Android. Yet the answer is no, and that's not likely to change soon.Author Julia Donaldson explained why in arecent interview with The Guardian, expressing her concerns about digital children's books:"The publishers showed me an ebook of Alice in Wonderland. They said, 'Look, you can press buttons and do this and that', and they showed me the page where Alice's neck gets longer. There's a button the child can press to make the neck stretch, and I thought, well, if the child's doing that, they are not going to be listening or reading, 'I wish my cat Dinah was here' or whatever it says in the text – they're just going to be fiddling with this wretched button."Donaldson went on to suggest that she's striking a blow on behalf of printed books in general. "I think it would be good if a few people like me spiked the future, punctured it a bit, so that people could say that with all their advantages, you couldn't get every single book there is as an ebook and that would encourage people to buy proper books."Well, she wrote The Gruffalo, so it's up to her what she does with it. And if that isn't strictly the case, as she hints in the interview, I'm glad she has a publisher that's sensitive to her wishes.I just wish they'd showed her a different app when trying to change her mind.Or a bunch of different apps, in fact. Because Alice for the iPad is fun and well-crafted, but I can see why Donaldson suspects the interactive whizzy bits might distract from the actual reading. And a.) that app came out back in April 2010, and b.) there's a lot of examples of book-apps thatstrengthenthe reading experience rather than weaken it.Such as? Well, I've picked out 10 examples of apps that hint at other ways The Gruffalo could go digital in a way that Donaldson might approve of. Here goes:Pip and Posy: Fun and GamesOkay, this is an obvious one, since it's a book-app based on a title by Axel Scheffler, who also provided the illustrations for The Gruffalo. But that's not the only reason Nosy Crow's app might sway Julia's opinion.Pip and Posy isn't a straight book: it's a collection of activities and mini-games, using the characters from Scheffler's Pip and Posy books. It's another way into that world, but a separate experience: rather than distracting from a story, playing with the app may encourage parents and children to seek out the books.Also you can make faces in a virtual mirror using the iPhone or iPad's camera. I'd be bang up for pulling a few Gruffalo expressions in this way, never mind what my children think...Collins Big Cat: Playing Story CreatorThis is part of a series of Big Cat apps from Collins Education, and to be honest I could have picked any of them – but this is the newest. It's a picture-book about children playing in the rain, wind, snow and mud, with language aimed at early readers in particular, and voice narration.But the Story Creator feature is what's interesting: once they've read the story, children can then create their own versions using the characters, scenes and vocabulary from the main story.Now think about kids making their own Gruffalo adventure. Scary for an author, perhaps, but as a way of reinforcing children's comprehension while also firing their creativity, it's a great idea.Dr. Seuss Beginner Book Collection #1I'd love to broker a meeting between Julia Donaldson and Michel Kripalani of apps firm Oceanhouse Media. They'd find plenty to agree on."We're not trying to create some crazy fancy dancing characters and puzzle games. We just don't think any of that belongs in a book," Kripalani told me in February 2012, when I interviewed him about his company's work bringing the entire Dr. Seuss catalogue (among other books) to iOS and Android."So in our apps, you can tap on any word that you don't know to hear the individual word spoken very clearly. Those are the tools that the child needs. They don't need to tap on the cat and have him jump up and down and spin around."The Dr. Seuss Beginner Book Collection shows this philosophy in action, with five of the good doctor's most famous books.Doodle TalesThis one's a bit scary, again, because it hints at letting children make up their own Gruffalo stories, which might not be up Donaldson's street. Then again, it might be – I'm optimistic, because Doodle Tales is fab.The idea: children use brushes, shapes, stamps and backgrounds to create their own stories, while recording their own voice narration to go with them. And then they can be shared with other Doodle Tales users. The developer has signed deals to include branded 'content packs' from kids' TV shows LazyTown and Numberjacks.Now think about thousands of children using a Gruffalo Tales app to come up with their own woodland stories, and sharing them. It's a different skill to reading: it's more imagination and creativity. It would be a wonderful thing.Peppa Me BooksIf reading and listening is what Donaldson likes to see, then it'd be great if she could sit down with Peppa Me Books and a couple of children for an hour or so. It's the work of Penguin Books and developer Made In Me, building on their work on a previous app called Ladybird Classic Me Books.Here, you pay £1.99 for the app, which includes one Peppa Pig Story, and you can buy more in-app. They're digital picture-books, with set zones on each page that you can tap on to hear Peppa, George, Daddy or Mummy Pig talk. You can also tap on the text to hear that read out.But here's the fun part: you and your children can also re-record all these bits yourself – my Daddy Pig impersonation is the stuff of legend. This would work perfectly for The Gruffalo. Even if my Gruffalo will probably sound a lot like my Daddy Pig...Cinderella – Nosy Crow Animated Picture BookAnother Nosy Crow app here, but this is more of a story than a collection of activities and mini-games. It tells the familiar tale of Cinderella with superbly-crafted animation, interactivity and a dash of humour – the Bollywood ballroom scene in particular. And there's camera-fuelled innovation too, when you see your own face looking out at you from a mirror on-screen.It's a beautiful piece of work, but one where the interactivity is geared entirely towards supporting the reading experience rather than distracting from it. That's what Nosy Crow boss Kate Wilsontold me in September 2011, anyway, stressing that interactivity can help children follow a story, rather than hinder."It's the building blocks of reading, and at least as important as phonic knowledge," she said. "They are understanding how stories work and internalising that."Transformers: Ruckus ReaderIf the mouse in The Gruffalo was able to turn into an enormous laser-toting robot, the story would be quite different, obviously. It's a helluva thought. But Transformers: Ruckus Reader could spark ideas for Gruffalo apps in a different way.It's the work of US company Ruckus Media Group, which launched its Ruckus Reader platform with the aim of putting interactivity to work to help children with word recognition, vocabulary learning and reading comprehension, rather than distract from it.So, there's a word hunt section, a make-your-own-story bit, mini-games and a central story about big robots doing Big Robot Stuff. But it's all geared towards enhancing reading rather than replacing it.If all this is too roboty, there are also Ruckus Reader apps for My Little Pony, Crayola and other US brands.Oh Say Can You Say Di-No-Saur?This is another Oceanhouse / Dr. Seuss app, but it's more than a straight story. It's more of an educational app, where The Cat In The Hat goes back in time to find dinosaur fossils, and explain the prehistoric era to young app users.It's part of a series called The Cat In The Hat's Learning Library, which uses the familiar Seuss characters (and rhymes!) to present more educational content.Now think about how this might work for The Gruffalo: a guide to woods and woodland creatures, say, or something about the weather and seasons, or... well, maybe not about the food chain, since fitting a fictional Gruffalo in might be tricky. But Gruffalo plus educational content could be really exciting in the apps world.Grimm's Hansel and GretelIs there a pop-up Gruffalo book already? Surely there is. Well, Irish company Ideal Binary – which recently rebranded as StoryToys – is all about making digital pop-up books. So far, it's been focusing on Grimm Brothers fairy tales like Hansel and Gretel.That means a mixture of text (with a musical soundtrack) and interactive pop-up scenes, where you get to tap on the characters and scenery to make things happen. And the two are separated, so you do a bit of reading, then a bit of interacting – rather than the latter competing directly with the former.It's an interesting and innovative spin on bringing picture-books to smartphones and tablets, anyway. The company's background is in games, and the idea of applying a game engine to Julia Donaldson's storytelling skills is very intriguing.DK Dinosaur StickersChildren love stickers. And that's not just because they can stick them all over things they shouldn't around the house. Mainly, but not just. The idea of creating your own scenes using familiar locations and characters is powerful, and it works just as well in the digital world as in printed sticker books.Publisher DK knows what it's doing on this score: its dinosaur stickers app is very impressive. Children can make their own scenes, then save and share them with family and friends.The Gruffalo, as something with strong characters and locations, would make a great subject for this kind of app. Admittedly, I'm a bit hazier on how this supports reading skills specifically. But if you buy the idea that apps can draw children deeper into an author's world, and thus encourage them to read the books, then it makes more sense.
Hope you're already having a lovely Thursday. Ant gaming action last night?
Analysts have warned small investors to steer clear of the $100bn Facebook sale after some of the social network's biggest shareholders ramped up the number of shares they intend to offload.The size of Facebook's stock exchange listing ballooned by a quarter after Goldman Sachs and other backers decided to cash in on the demand for the shares by increasing the amount of stock they plan to sell in the public offering on Friday.Goldman announced it would sell 29m shares, more than double its previous 13m ceiling. Peter Thiel, legendary Silicon Valley investor who was one of the firm's first big backers, will sell 17m shares, up from 8m.Hedge fund Tiger Global, run by 36-year-old New Yorker Chase Coleman, increased its selloff from 3m to 23m shares. DST Group, which represents Russian investors such as Yuri Milner, will now offload a quarter of its holding."People who invested early have done very, very well out of Facebook," said Sam Hamadeh, chief executive of PrivCo, a private company analyst in the US. But at $100bn, he thinks it is overvalued. "You can still believe in social media without buying into Facebook at this price. This company has been priced for perfection and then some. It's going to be very difficult for them to live up to that."Warren Buffett may have declined to take an early punt on Facebook, and internet commentators may have dismissed its shares as "muppet bait" and "dotcom reloaded", but the sceptics have done nothing to deflate the hype surrounding the $104bn (£65bn) company.Such is the clamour from individuals and institutions wanting shares ahead of Facebook's first public trading day on Nasdaq on Friday, its early backers have increased the number they plan to offload by 25% – meaning the float will now raise about $16bn.Alan Patrick, co-founder of technology consultancy Broadsight, said the frenzy for Facebook was evidence of a bubble mentality like the one that drove up internet share prices ahead of the millennial dotcom boom – which later turned to bust. "I imagine the shares will enjoy a huge rise on the first day of trading. There are always 'greater fools' prepared to buy at a higher price," he said.Patrick said the real test for the share price would be in the coming months. "At this valuation, they have got to hit every performance target and then some," he said."This is much more a spectacle, a media event and a cultural moment than it is an IPO," GreenCrest Capital analyst Max Wolff told Reuters. "This is not a game of models and fundamentals at this point."The estimated offer price range stands at $34 to $38, but analysts expect the value to spike significantly on Friday as investors who missed out on the pre-IPO round pile into the stock.A first-day bubble would be in line with previous tech stock debuts. Business networking site LinkedIn floated at $45 per share but soared to $95.25 on its first day of trading, a rise of 109%, while voucher firm Groupon closed up 31%. Given the level of demand, Facebook is unlikely to suffer the fate of games group Zynga, which closed down 5%.The company left nothing to chance when it signed up 33 underwriters – almost every investment bank on Wall Street – to sell its offering.Analyst and MoneyWeek commentator, Phil Oakley, said: "There are 33 backers with an incentive to ramp this, and you won't hear much naysaying. There is very little impartial comment out there, and private investors are swimming in the dark."From Friday, British investors will be able to buy shares. Leading UK broker Hargreaves Lansdown received hundreds of requests for information on Facebook when the float was first mooted in February.Its customers tend to be smaller private investors, many of whom will remember the dotcom crash. "There is going to be a lot of people wanting to get involved because the sale was oversubscribed, so there could be some intense trading in the first couple of days," said Richard Hunter, head of equities at Hargreaves. His advice is to wait until the price falls back down to earth, as analysts fully expect it to do, before taking a long-term position.
The size of Facebook's stock exchange listing has ballooned by a quarter after Goldman Sachs and other backers decided to cash in on the massive demand for the shares by ramping up the amount of stock they plan to offload in the social network's stockmarket debut.Warren Buffett may have declined to take an early punt on Facebook, and internet commentators may have dismissed its shares as "muppet bait" and "dotcom reloaded", but the sceptics have done nothing to deflate the hype surrounding the $104bn (£65bn) company.Such is the clamour from individuals and institutions wanting shares ahead of Facebook's first public trading day on Nasdaq on Friday, its early backers have increased the number they plan to offload by 25% – meaning the float will now raise $16bn.Goldman Sachs will part with nearly half its holding, selling 29m shares, up from its previous 13m ceiling. Peter Thiel, famously depicted as the first big investor in the film The Social Network, will sell 17m, up from 8m.Hedge fund Tiger Global, run by 36-year-old New Yorker Chase Coleman, increased its selloff from 3m to 23m shares. DST Group, which represents Russian investors such as Yuri Milner, will now offload a quarter of its holding."This is much more a spectacle, a media event and a cultural moment than it is an IPO," GreenCrest Capital analyst Max Wolff told Reuters. "This is not a game of models and fundamentals at this point."The estimated offer price range stands at $34 to $38, but analysts expect the value to spike significantly on Friday as investors who missed out on the pre-IPO round pile into the stock.A first-day bubble would be in line with previous tech stock debuts. Business networking site LinkedIn floated at $45 per share but soared to $95.25 on its first day of trading, a rise of 109%, while voucher firm Groupon closed up 31%. Given the level of demand, Facebook is unlikely to suffer the fate of games group Zynga, which closed down 5%.The company left nothing to chance when it signed up 33 underwriters – almost every investment bank on Wall Street – to sell its offering. Analyst and MoneyWeek commentator Phil Oakley said: "There are 33 backers with an incentive to ramp this and you won't hear much naysaying. There is very little impartial comment out there and private investors are swimming in the dark."From Friday, British investors will be able to buy shares. Leading UK broker Hargreaves Lansdown received hundreds of requests for information on Facebook when the float was first mooted in February. Its customers tend to be smaller private investors, many of whom will remember the dotcom crash."There is going to be a lot of people wanting to get involved because the sale was oversubscribed, so there could be some intense trading in the first couple of days," said Richard Hunter, head of equities at Hargreaves. His advice is to wait until the price falls back down to earth, as analysts fully expect it to do, before taking a long-term position."People who invested early have done very, very well out of Facebook," said Sam Hamadeh, chief executive of PrivCo, a private company analyst in the US. But at $100bn, he thinks it is overvalued. "You can still believe in social media without buying into Facebook at this price. This company has been priced for perfection and then some. It's going to be very difficult for them to live up to that."Not everyone is a believer. Influential internet commentator Henry Blodget has dismissed the shares as "muppet bait" in a reference to leaked Goldman Sachs emails deriding the firm's less perspicacious customers.Smaller investors thinking of taking a punt in the coming weeks may wish to heed the warning of US comic Jimmy Fallon: "It's great – now you can lose all your money in the same place you lost all your time."
Android continued its relentless march on the mobile market in the first quarter of 2012, making up 56% of world smartphone shipments as that sector grew by 44.7% to 144.4m, even while the overall world market for mobile phones shrank by 2% year-on-year to 419m, according tonew data from research company Gartner.Normalised view of smartphone market by platform share, 1Q 2007-1Q 2012. Source: GartnerA year ago Android phones were 36.4% of the smartphone market, at 36.4m units. But a year later they more than doubled to 81m, leaping nearly 20 points in share in the past year. Of other mobile phone platforms, only Apple managed any significant growth in sales and share, rising to 33.1m units and 22.9%, compared to 16.9% and 16.9m units a year ago when the total smartphone market was just short of 100m.Smartphone sales growth, 1Q 2007 - 1Q 2012, by platform. Source: GartnerBut for Nokia and RIM, which formerly dominated the sector, the figures brought more unsettling news.RIM strugglesRIM in particular saw handset shipments fall from 13m a year ago for a 13% share to 9.9m, and 6.9%, from January to March. Separate figures released on Tuesday by Kantar WorldPanel ComTech said that RIM's share of consumer sales in the US in the 12 weeks to mid-April dropped to just 3%, from 9% for the same period a year ago - suggesting that one of its former strongholds has become a significant weakness.RIM's strongest markets now are in the UK, Spain, Middle East and India - but the Kantar figures (which do not include sales to business) show RIM's share of sales falling compared a year before in the US, UK, Germany, France, Italy and Australia.The company's stock has fallen to a 52-week low, and its new BB10 OS may not appear on devices until late in the year. "RIM desperately needs to deliver winning BB10 products to retain users and stay competitive," said Anshul Gupta, principal research analyst at Gartner. "This will be very challenging, because BB10 lacks strong developer support, and a new BB10 device will only be available in the fourth quarter of 2012."Nokia shiftsNokia too faces a torrid time, with a collapse in sales of its older Symbian smartphone OS not being replaced yet by sales of newer devices running Windows Phone. The first quarter of 2012 marked the first three months in which Nokia's Lumia was available in the UK, but it did not go on sale in the US until after the first quarter.Symbian sales have dived around the world, according to both Gartner and ComTech: Gartner said total sales fell from 27.6m in the year-ago quarter to 12.4m this year, while ComTech saw its share fall to single digits everywhere but Italy - where it more than halved, from 47.1% to 16.9%. But Windows Phone shipments have barely budged. Though Gartner does not distinguish between the now-deprecated Windows Mobile and Windows Phone, the latter is reckoned to be the overwhelming majority of Microsoft licences - but Gartner puts its figure at just 2.7m this first quarter, compared to 2.6m in the same period in 2011. As the smartphone market is expanding, that amounts to a fall in share.Nokia has not yet however begun to offer its Lumia portfolio in a significant number of countries compared to the number in which it sells Symbian. But Gupta noted that the Finnish company, which once dominated the mobile market, is hobbled by its comparatively small smartphone share: for Samsung they make 44% of total shipments, for Apple 100%, but for Nokia just 16%.Dominic Sunnebo, global consumer insight director for ComTech, warned that the coming months could see seismic changes in the UK phone market. "We are likely to see some big changes in manufacturer shares over the coming months, as we expect to see almost 22 million consumers aged 13+ changing their mobile device in the next year, with almost 80% of these consumers buying a smartphone."The best news for Nokia is that in the UK, Germany, Italy and France, where the Lumia 800 went on sale last November, Windows Phone is showing fast growth compared to a year ago - though its share is still in the low single digits.UK smartphones: change in store?Presently around 53% of the UK mobile-using population of 60m has a smartphone, but it is unclear whether the remainder presently using featurephones will shift to smartphones more quickly than those who already have - who did so over the course of about five years. Some featurephone users might prove reluctant to change."The pool of featurephone users left to trade up is beginning to diminish," said Sunnebo. "This means that smartphone manufacturers need to step up their game and find ways of stealing consumers from their competitors – something that usually proves harder than convincing existing customers to trade up from featurephone to smartphone."Gartner's figures also confirmed the world dominance of Samsung, which is reckoned to have shipped more mobiles than any other company, and Apple: together, the two companies took 49.3% of the smartphone business, which itself made up a record 34% of the entire mobile sector, surpassing more than one in three sales for the first time.But within Android, despite its rapid growth and dominant share, there are tensions, said Gupta, due to the rapid commoditisation of the sector. There, he said, "a strong commoditization trend is at work and most players are finding it hard to break the mould. At the high end, hardware features coupled with applications and services are helping differentiation, but this is restricted to major players with intellectual property assets. However, in the mid to low-end segment, price is increasingly becoming the sole differentiator. This will only worsen with the entry of new players and the dominance of Chinese manufacturers, leading to increased competition, low profitability and scattered market share."Sunnebo, for ComTech, pointed to HTC's success with the One X, which became one of the ten best-selling phones for the 12 weeks to the end of April, despite only being on sale for one week. But Sony and LG saw their share of Android sales in the UK dwindle, to 10.4% and 1% - and so to only half that of the overall smartphone market, where Android has 50.1% of sales. Both companies have struggled to convert their featurephone users, said ComTech: in the past year only 11% of Sony featurephone users upgraded to one of its smartphones, while for LG the figure was just 4%.Future challengesAndroid's share of the UK market grew from 44.6% in the 12 weeks to mid-April 2011  to 50.1%. Apple's grew faster, from 18.6% to 30%, and Sunnebo suggested that it could be well-positioned for future challenges: "Rich new content and features are a big driver for consumers looking to trade up. However, convincing users to switch brands requires an emphasis on the user experience – an area in which Apple excels. Consumers have come to expect top-end hardware, and manufacturers are responding with innovative software, good services and exclusive content partnerships."Some of the ComTech data hints at increased price sensitivity in parts of the Eurozone such as Spain, where Android has hit a 72% share. But its dominance is emphasised by the fact that it is approaching or above 50% share in every country surveyed by the company.China meanwhile is becoming increasingly important: the rollout there of smartphones by a brace of local and regional makers including Huawei, ZTE, Lenovo, Yulong and TCL Communication is expected to drive sales there. For Apple, it became its second-largest market, after the US, with more than 5m units shipped from a combination of official and unofficial distributors.
Hotline to the starsRussell Brand is clearly ancient history. Keith Vaz, starstruck chair of the Commons home affairs committee, is now planning to speak to Joan Collins about her delays at Heathrow.Mini beastiesBest Adam Yauch tribute yet: the Sabotage videorecreated by a bunch of kids in crazy 70s wigs.Jobs for the boysThe battle of the Apple biopics is hotting up: a film titled Jobs already hasAshton Kutcherin the lead, whileAaron Sorkin (The Social Network) has just signed on as screenwriter for Steve Jobs.Paint it ... blueAnother Boris fan crawls out of the woodwork.Mick Jagger apparently sent the London mayor a congratulatory email on his re-election.Euro philesDid someone mention a Grexit? Jittery Greek savers withdrew €705m on Monday alone,according to the Wall Street Journal.
On Friday, Facebook will finally become a public company. The hotly anticipated initial public offering (IPO) will be the largest tech company share sale ever and is expected to value the social network at over $100bn – more than the combined value of Nike and Goldman Sachs.But not everyone is cheering Facebook on. Ahead of the sale of the century, here are five signals that suggest there may be choppy days ahead for Facebook's investors.A lot of smart guys just decided to sellFacebook's early investors are some of the most successful in Silicon Valley, and on Wednesday a lot of them decided to dump a lot more shares.The social network giant announced Wednesday it was upping the number of shares it will offer in the IPO to 421.2m from 337.4m. The sale is now expected to value the firm at over $100bn – making it the biggest ever tech company IPO.The company said Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's chief executive, would not be selling more shares. But Peter Thiel, the famed Silicon Valley investor, will now be selling 16.8m shares, up from 7.7m shares.Goldman Sachs more than doubled its planned share sale to 28.7m from the 13.2m the investment bank had initially planned to sell.Tiger Global, a hedge fund, will sell to 23.4m from 3.4m. Tiger's head,Charles "Chase" Coleman III, earned an estimated $500m last year and is an expert in making money out of IPOs.GM just gave them the bootGeneral Motors, one of the world's biggest advertisers, said this week that it waspulling its ads off Facebook.The car firm is keeping its Facebook pages, which are free, but decided that its ads just aren't working.GM doesn't spend a lot of money on Facebook, but this is a big blow. Facebook's massive valuation is based on expectations of a glorious future as the pre-eminent platform for display advertising online.The car firm is not Facebook's only critic.Nate Elliott, Forrester analyst, recently wrote in a blog post: "One global consumer goods company told us recently that Facebook was getting worse, rather than better, at helping marketers succeed."He said the firm was great at innovating for its users but added: "Facebook just doesn't pay nearly as much attention to marketing as it does to user experience. (Not surprising, given its founder's famous loathing for advertisers.)"Research released this week byWordStream, a search engine software and marketing firm, concluded that Google is doing a better job than Facebook on display ads. It found the average click-through rate (CTR) of an ad on the Google Display Network is 0.4% – almost 10 times as high as the typical Facebook ad.The price ain't rightAt $100bn Facebook has a price to earnings (p/e) ratio of about 100. Don't nod off – p/e ratios are a rough measure of how fast a company is expected to grow. GM has a p/e of 6.6, which means it's a slow grower. Google has a p/e of 19 these days but had also had a p/e in the 100s when it did its IPO.But Google was growing far faster than Facebook back then. Google doubled its growth in the year after its IPO. In its most recent quarter Facebook's growth had reached 44% and had actually slowed from the previous quarter. In part that was because Facebook's advertising business is seasonal, and the previous quarter included the run-up to Christmas.Let's say Facebook starts growing faster this year, say 40-60% growth for the year. That's impressive stuff for any normal company. But Sam Hamadeh, chief executive of PrivCo, calculates that even with a p/e of 65,Facebook's shares are worth about $24-$25 a piece.Facebook increased its price range for the IPO this week to $34 to $38 a share.Facebook had revenue of $3.6bn last year, which is impressive. But Hamadeh calculates the company needs to take a quarter of the online ads in the entire world to justify its present price.Mobile dilemmaFacebook mentions the word "mobile" 123 timesin its prospectus. The company had 845m monthly active users (MAUs) as of December 31, 2011. Some 425m were mobile users. And they don't make Facebook any money."We do not currently directly generate any meaningful revenue from the use of Facebook mobile products, and our ability to do so successfully is unproven," Facebook said in its prospectus. If Facebook was "unable to successfully implement monetization strategies for our mobile users," the company's revenue growth could be harmed.Analysts have speculated that mobile is one reason that Zuckerberg was so keen to spend $1bn buying the mobile photo-sharing app Instagram. Not that it makes any money on mobile either.Life moves quickly online. Facebook is a product of the laptop/PC age. It's not yet proven it can make it in the mobile era.ManagementMark Zuckerberg got where he is today by doing exactly what he wanted. When Facebook goes public he will still be its biggest shareholder and will have voting control over 55.8% of the company's shares.Zuckerberg clearly believes life will continue as normal after the IPO. As Facebook states in the prospectus the firm "prioritizes our user engagement over short-term financial results, and we frequently make product decisions that may reduce our short-term revenue or profitability."That's fine when you are a private company but as other tech stars including the Google boys and Amazon have found, Wall Street investors soon tire of wunderkinds who don't deliver quarter after quarter after quarter. Zuckerberg was going to ring the opening bell at Nasdaq, the stock exchange that will soon be home to Facebook. Now he's decided to celebrate in Silicon Valley. It's clear where his loyalties lie. Betting on Facebook means betting that Zuckerberg has a second act in which he can learn to value his new investors as highly as he values Facebook.
John Sculley – the man who as Apple chief executive gave the world the Newton, which was the first glimpse of the "personal digital assistant" in the 1980s – can see a number of possibilities opening up before us.A world without work for millions who want it? A world where we can diagnose strokes or heart attacks well before they happen? A world of machines talking to machines? All are possible, even likely, because of cloud computing, which he sees as the next driver of huge social change.And he also has a clear idea of what the Newton really needed to succeed – and which of Apple's visions from the time really matches what we're seeing now."I'm an optimist," declares Sculley, now 73 but still deeply involved in technology. "You can't be an entrepreneur if you're not essentially an optimist, so I'm an optimist by nature."Cloud computing, has says, means that we're shifting from the growth of Moore's Law – a doubling every 18 months – to something even more exponential. "The curve is accelerating upwards, at a level that means that technologies are coming out that can do things that you couldn't even envision even two or three years ago."Robust data storage costs are falling too, from around $5 (£3.14) per gigabyte a year ago to 25c now. "The speed at which a lot of this technology is commoditising is unprecedented," Sculley says.Even so, he sees some areas for concern. First, imagine a world where computers have driven humans out of all but the highest-skilled jobs – so that driverless cars, automated factories and similar processes mean that the middle class that has for years been happily thriving on jobs that couldn't be done otherwise suddenly find themselves disenfranchised.Sculley admits he's not as optimistic about that. "The more we bring in these sophisticated technologies, the higher the skills of the people that are needed to be able to use it, and the fewer people we need in the workforce, so the issue is not about work moving to lower-cost workers, it's about automation replacing many of the jobs that we had counted on, particularly for our middle class in the past."The political gridlock in the US – caused by the warring demands of the Tea Party, which thinks government and taxation is destroying jobs, and those of the Democratic Party, which has been trying to drive growth by boosting the money supply – is one example. Another is the Eurozone, where the tensions between Spanish, Greek, German and French voters and their leaders is coming into starker focus as unemployment rises."Those are the things that technology may not be able to solve, but it certainly is a consequence of technology, that the sophistication of automation is changing how work is done, and is changing the skill requirements of workers," says Sculley. "In many cases jobs that used to be done by people are going to be able to be done through automation. I don't have an answer to that. That's one of the more perplexing problems of society."Even so, he does think that – as has happened previously – technology will throw up a solution. (In the early 1900s, the problems of horse manure in London streets threatened to overwhelm them; the car solved that – but, of course, eventually brought its own set of challenges.)On a more optimistic note, Sculley – who now works as a venture capitalist, and has investments in companies looking at healthcare – things that cloud computing is going to make a colossal difference to the quality of our lives.Healthcare in the US is a $2.6tn market, driven by insurers which pay doctors who often carry out procedures and expensive tests in order to avoid lawsuits. The problem is that healthcare costs are rising more quickly than inflation, incomes or tax receipts."Politicians are arguing among themselves as to who's going to pay for it," says Sculley. "It's completely unaffordable at its current growth rates, and the more I get a chance to understand health care, the more convinced I am that the problem is very solvable, but it's solvable through innovation, not through just governments trying to work out who pays for what."We see healthcare shifting from a procedure reimbursement where in this country doctors are reimbursed for how many procedures they conduct, to a world where people will be reimbursed for the outcomes – did the patient actually get better, and what was the total cost of the cycle of care. So it's not just about taking cloud computing and automating the healthcare system we have today, it literally means innovating and reinventing the health care system to make it it much more patient-centric.""Big data analytics" – the analysis of colossal amounts of data which could amount to terabytes of information – will change healthcare, he forecasts, from one where doctors are paid to carry out procedures, to one where they're paid based on keeping people well. (In that sense, it sounds like the longstanding Chinese principle where a doctor's quality is measured on how infrequently patients get sick, not how quickly they're cured.)Apple chairman Steve Jobs, chief executive John Sculley and co-founder Steve Wozniak unveil the new Apple IIc computer in San Francisco in April 1984. Photograph: Sal Veder/APAnd helping that will be computing that will analyse everything – even the levels of proteins in our blood. "I'm working with a company right now where we're doing this – you can track in real time peoples' vital signs and take that data, you can imagine that's massive amounts of data when you're tracking each individual in real time, the vital signs – it could be their heart, could be how much they weigh, could be their fluid retention, could be even tracking proteomics, which are protein changes inside the body."If you can take that data and then be able to analyse it, it means that the future of medicine is going to be able to make predictions and measure outcomes of patient health improvement at a level of accuracy and a level of personalisation that we've never seen before."All this, he says, will rely on the computing power brought together by the cloud: "It isn't just the compute power, it's that you can enable the big data analytics, in a specialised way. That's going to give us hope that what looked like insolvable problems like health care can be solved."Don't expect overnight change, but do expect change: " It may not be done in a few years," Sculley warns. "it may take five or 10 or 15 years to see the impact, but there's no question in my mind that it's going to have as big an impact on things like healthcare as personal computers did in empowering individuals and really created the productivity we've had for 30 years with knowledge workers."The cloud doesn't just stop with people, though. Imagine too a world where there are around 20bn internet-connected devices – but only around 7 billion people, as there are now. That's the forecast from various research companies for 2020."Having 20bn connected devices means that the majority of those connected devices will be machine to machine," Sculley explains. "It means we're just at the beginning era of very powerful sensors that can be built into clothing, that can be used for tracking almost anything that one can conceive and doing that in real time and using cloud computing to manipulate data which is going to be many many orders of magnitude larger and more complex that anything we've ever considered before."Speaking of connected devices, might one of the flaws in the Newton have been it lack of connectivity – something that now exists through mobile broadband? Sculley has, of course, had a long time to reflect on this."Well, I think the idea [of Newton] was right, it was just 20 years ahead of its time. So actually, a lot of people were able to see where the industry's going, the hardest part is to figure out when it's going to happen."In the case of the PDA, the idea was right – that the content and communication and computing were going to converge – but I think we greatly underestimated that we needed broadband, that we need far more powerful devices, that we needed something a lot more powerful in the background which we now know as 'cloud' to be able to handle the tremendous amount of data, and connecting people up through social networking. So it was a good idea, but it was just several decades too early."Was it then one of those projects that simply gets out of hand, and acquires a momentum that can't be stopped as it thunders into the market? "We never looked at Newton as being the seminal product. That was just one step along the way, You can get a much better view of the seminal experience if you go back – you can go to YouTube, i think it's 1988 [in fact 1987], a concept video we created called Knowledge Navigator."Indeed,Knowledge Navigator) – from the days when Apple made concept videos – has become famous for prefiguring many elements we're now familiar with: tablet computing, internet search, voice control. It shows the internet as a graphical medium – predating the web, which hadn't yet been invented – and suggests effortless interaction with digital "assistants".Knowledge Navigator, says Sculley, "is really something we couldn't build at the time. But technically we could use special effects and be able to simulate what the experience would be like. That was 24 yeas ago and if you look at that, I think is pretty accurate, almost to the point of being uncanny as to what the experience of tablet computing and mobile devices have turned out to be like."Which leads to the obvious final question: how does he organise his computing life? Is he, to coin a phrase, post-PC? "I'm clearly post-PC," he replies. "I carry an iPhone, a BlackBerry, a [Samsung] Galaxy Note, and I carry an iPad. When I'm in my home office I use a Mac, so I think I'm more typical than not  in using many, many different devices."The post-PC era doesn't mean the end of devices, he says: "It means you can be on any device that you happen to have, and everything basically is more and more connectible through the cloud."•John Sculley is giving the keynote address at the Cloud Computing World Forum in London on 12-13 June
If Sunday's match between Manchester City and QPR had taken place within Fifa, it would have been dismissed by the participants as a fanciful and unrealistic flourish. "Fifa always makes it easier to score in extra time," we would have claimed. But it is also a sign that, as the years pass, the real sport and its most successful virtual companion are moving ever closer together.On Tuesday, EA Sports revealed the first few details of Fifa 13, arriving in the autumn for (I kid you not), the 3DS, iPad, iPhone, iPod Touch, PC, PS3, PSP, Xbox and Vita – as well as "other smartphone platforms".The key addition is set to be the new "attacking intelligence" technoloigy, which apparently allows computer players to think two-steps ahead, planning forward moves and responding more sharply to emerging offensive runs. From the press release:Players now possess the intelligence to create, curve, or alter runs to capitalise on openings as they occur, make runs that pull defenders out of position to open passing channels for teammates, and better position themselves for new attacking opportunities.The dribbling system has also been worked over since Fifa 12 – although, promises of "precise dribble touches" and "true 360° mobility with the ball" were made last time if we're fair. Here though, we're promised more variation in the ability of different players (ie, expect your hulking defensive midfeilder's close ball control to be more messy than Messi), and a new first touch system:Factors such as defensive pressure, trajectory of the ball, and velocity of the pass now impact a player's first touch, creating more opportunities for defenders to win back possession.Adding to the increased physicality of Fifa 12 is an off-the-ball tussling component, allowiing defenders to jostle opposing strikers, forcing them into poor first touches. This is all more realistic, of course, but EA Sports will need to strike a balance between authentic simulation and annoying participants by taking control and ability away from their squad members.On this subject, don't expect to see diving in the game any time soon.According to producer, Dave Rutter,it's an element of the real game that spoils rather than enhances the simulated experience.Elsewhere, we're promised new modes and options as well as improvements to favourites such as the Head-to-Head Seasons and Career modes. Free kicks are also to be spruced up, allowing the taker to line up three players around the ball for those tricksy fakes and sleights. Meanwhile, defenders can add or subtract players from the wall, while sneakily moving it forward.At the moment, this sounds much more like a continuation of the work started in Fifa 12 than a radical overhaul – but we'll know more at E3 in June. And if that showdown between Man City and QPR taught us anything, it's not to judge any game on the raw pre-match statistics.
It's been seven years since Sly and pals last hit the road in search of anthropomorphic larceny. I spoke to San Francisco developers Sanzaru to see why they're letting the raccoon out of the bag one more time.Even though Sly Cooper has been absent from the public consciousness for quite a while now – despite a recent PS3 re-release of the previous three titles starring the world's most famous raccoon-thief combination – you wouldn't know it to talk to the developers at Sanzaru. There's not an awful lot of them.Its small indie warehouse studio located on the outskirts of San Francisco holds about 30 employees –"although most of them aren't here", said chief executive and president Glen Egan on the three-minute tour. "It's not 10am yet, and games designers don't like getting up early." – but they're passionate about the concept, the style and the promise that the franchise holds."We pitched for the project from Sucker Punch back in 2008, because we wanted to play another Sly Cooper game," says lead designer Mat Kraemer. "Our biggest achievement is that I think we've made a title that feels like the old ones did, but it's new. People are hungry for a new game – we've seen that from our forums, and our Facebook page – but they want it to be what they remember, too."Nostalgia's a strong element, certainly; it'd have to be, considering how quickly this industry moves. The teenagers who cut their teeth on the originals – a set of three games focusing around a Robin-Hood-esque raccoon thief with a heart of gold and his variety of similarly animalistic chums – are now in their 20s, so tapping into that vein was a top priority. As was getting a whole new set of gamers hooked on the franchise, and hopefully send them delving into the back catalogue.We're allowed to play two jobs (Sly Cooper's equivalent of levels – the game works off a series of hub areas with some open-world gameplay elements, connected to which are spokes which feature directed, guided experiences) in The Monkey Room, so called on account of the stylised simian face – the company logo – emblazoned on the carpet. The glass-walled space in the centre of the office is where all the important team meetings take place, where bean bags and sofas are the order of the day.The actual corporate meeting rooms have been designed to be as uncomfortable as possible, we're told, so boring discussions don't run on too long.The levels are pretty standard stuff with equal measures of sneaking and some platforming, but plenty serviceable and with lots of that characteristic Playstation-platformer charm. That vibe carried through successive generations ofSpyro,Crash Bandicootet al is still clearly visible with colourful backgrounds, over-the-top Saturday-morning-cartoon voice acting, and chunky gameplay. The mechanic for landing on small bits of scenery – tapping the circle button as you leap towards them – is a little hard to pick up and sends me falling to my death multiple times, but with practice the elegance of the system shines through and I eventually hop nimbly between platforms more often than I plummet into the darkness between them.I ask Mat if he thinks there's still a market for platformers in the adult market, and he looks a little miffed."It's not just a platformer," he says, "it's an adventure game. There's a bit of everything in there; stealth, puzzles, minigames, exploration, action, combat. It's hard to pin it down to just one genre." It seems he thinks platformer is a dirty word. "I mean, you play Uncharted and you're jumping on platforms and climbing walls, but no one calls it a platformer, do they?"He's not wrong. Uncharted and fellow industry-leader Assassin's Creed both, at their root, share a lot with Sonic the Hedgehog's mad dashes or Prince of Persia's maze of deathtraps, if you pause to think. Platforming's not the only link between Sly Cooper and the Creed series, either – they also share a common bond in plot as Sly travels through time (in a souped-up VW Camper van, though, rather than an animus unit) meeting his ancestors to reconstruct a mystical book of thief techniques that's unravelling before his eyes.Is Sanzaru going to get elbow-deep in the waters of time, like Square Enix's recent Final Fantasy XIII? "Nothing like that," says Mat, "No, we don't like games where the plot's too confusing, where there's too much going on. We don't want the player to walk into a cutscene and go 'Huh? Why am I here? Who's this?' No, the time-travel thing is just a framing device."The time-travel plot allows use of multiple different ancestors, all of whom wrote part of Sly's magical book, on certain levels in the past. We're shown Ruinichi Cooper, a master ninja and sushi chef with a dodgy Japanese accent and a power called Leaping Dragon which propels him through the air, and Sir Galleth, a knightly sounding English chap with an unimpressive beard and an unasked-for jester outfit. Both of them are, of course, raccoons.(At one point, Sir Galleth uses the word "fortnight" in a cutscene. The associate producer leans over to us and asks us "Now, do any of you know what fortnight means?" I tell him it's another word for "two weeks," obviously, and he congratulates me on "obviously having read a fantasy novel or two." I don't have the heart to tell him it's just a normal word to us in Merry Olde England).Their powers are almost subsidiary to the special costumes that Sly will earn in each period, though, and carry around with him for the rest of the game equipping them as you would a weapon. We learned of two – an archer outfit which allows the creation of rope bridges and oversized samurai armour which protects our hero from fire. While both of these have abilities vital to the level in which they're unlocked, the meat of their application comes in backtracking."I'm really excited about the layering of play," says Glen. "There are some parts of the hub levels where you'll notice a strange object laying around and not think anything of it, but when you gain access to a costume, you can unlock something from there. There's just layers and layers of play."Mat chips in. "We're not shipping this with a multi-player mode, so we wanted the single-player to be really substantial. Just playing through the story mode will take around 15 hours, and there's lots and lots more to do in using those costumes to backtrack through the levels."I've never been a massive fan of back-tracking in games, but these guys seem to genuinely love it. Their eyes light up as they discuss the possibility of going to an area time and time again to unlock additional content, and part of that enthusiasm is starting to rub off on me as they talk. I ask what else they've got to keep players excited."There's secret bits – I really miss the way that games used to have invisible spaces or triggers that you could find to unlock a warp or an Easter Egg or something like that," Mat continues, "So we've put in a lot of that sort of thing. The first few are fairly easy to get but the others ... not so much."The trophies are going to be harder this time, too. I'd say that Thieves in Time is going to be the hardest of the series in that respect. I'd say it'd take about six weeks of solid play to get all of them.""Well, we say six weeks," sighs Glen, "But then you see people are hitting Platinum in two days. What are these people doing? Are they not sleeping or eating? Are they playing in the bathroom? What going on with that?"All signs point to this product being a labour of love for this small studio, and it's difficult not to be drawn in by their boundless enthusiasm - but it's not just the employees that have a devotion to the game. One wall of the kitchen, near to a restored Dance Dance Revolution Extreme arcade unit, plays host to the fan mail sent celebrating the previous three games, all of it laboriously hand-written by kids from all over the world.There are drawings of Sly and other characters in various costumes, letters of congratulations and thanks, and lists of recommendations for future products. "Thanks so much for saying you are making Sly 4," reads one, "ever since playing Sly 3 I've been wanting a Sly 4. I have been waiting for two years.""These kids write in and thank us and some of them ask pretty basic questions, like 'How do I do this?' or 'What's the deal with this?' and I realise that they can't go on the internet to find out, so they write in," says Glen as he concludes the tour next to the wall, "They write in by hand. That's awesome. That makes me happy for the future of the human race knowing kids like this are in it."• Sly Cooper: Thieves in Time is set for release later this year
Despite extensive stress-testing, Diablo 3's global launch was bound hit a few snags. And sure enough, as the 23.01 deadline passed and BattleNet servers opened worldwide, literally thousands of gamers started a mad dash to install the game, promptly crashing servers … as it did again the following day.It may have been a delay rather than a disaster – and it certainly didn't stop me racing through the first act before breakfast – but it did reflect many people's top pre-launch concern: Diablo 3's need to maintain a constant internet connection. Blizzard insists this is to ensure that characters can only be levelled up in one way to prevent fraud as well as retain security and control.Nevertheless, having already lost some progress and booty between checkpoints myself, it's clear this latest multiplayer intrusion will rankle some single players deeply – at least until Battlenet returns to its usual, stable self. Of course, there are some advantages to having your character ID, stats and items stored online, but more about that in a moment.In terms of gameplay, first glance reveals everything you would expect from a Diablo sequel: five playable character classes, roughly divided between close-range brawlers like the Barbarian and Monk and rangier characters like The Wizard and Demon Hunter. And, for sheer strangeness, there's the Witch Doctor – whose Demon Dogs skill fast became my defence of choice. For the first time, I was also able to make him a her, even though gender has no bearing on anything but appearance and voice-over.Once in the game, it's clear that the new 3D engine has been put to work on rendering a level of detail we haven't seen in the series before. Superb lighting effects make even Act 1's formulaic dungeons seem more atmospheric, but once you reach Act 2's Caldeum and beyond, more spectacular locations and draw distances emerge. Enemies may have a tendency to swarm mindlessly towards you, but they come in large numbers and reasonable variety.Not every improvement pays off, however; there's far too little destructible scenery and context-sensitive traps – such as falling chandeliers or rolling logs – sound like a great idea on paper but require such careful lining up of enemies you won't be troubling with them after the first few attempts.There's improvement as well as innovation, particularly with the UI. With a permanent Portal spell to take you back to nearby towns and a much smarter way of choosing and comparing items, you can now focus on the important task of killing things.However, in the 12 years since Diablo 2, RPG combat has moved on in leaps and bounds and D3 seems determined to stick to its tried and tested brawling system. Certainly there's a plethora of pyrotechnic skills for each character, most of which can be customised with up to five Runes each, opening up some fascinating alternative strategies for each class. But the way this is organised onscreen is confusing, with skills taking precedence over weapons by default and no clear overview of the powers you already have, let alone aspire to.There's also a tedious "cooling down" period once a rune is activated and even longer after taking a Health potion. At least slain enemies now drop orbs that can be collected by running over them but this tends to give you abundant health at precisely the moment you don't need it (ie, once the danger has been eliminated).Combat itself is fast, furious and varied, with early standout attacks such as the Monk's Exploding Palm or the Barbarian's Wrath of the Bezerker even more impressive once fully runed up. However, compared to the fluidity of, say, Kingdoms of Amular, D3 battles still feel disjointed and unnecessarily frenetic – particularly when taking on the exceptionally mobile Bosses.Combat also remains crippling on the fingers thanks to mapping moves and primary attacks to the same mouse button which too often results in charging enemies you should have tackled at distance. Meanwhile, when you have NPC allies, they offer little in the way of real assistance until fully upgraded – by which time your enemies have taken a quantum leap in hardness themselves.And what of the adventure? Well, it's set around 20 years after D2 and once again Sanctuary is under attack from hellish forces. It's a subtle introduction, avoiding lengthy cut-scenes except at the start of each of the game's four acts in favour of dropping pieces of "lore" that play out while you continue adventuring. Add to this some top quality voice acting and an stirring soundtrack and D3 works fine as an unfolding story without winning any prizes for original fiction. And although most of the side quests are formulaic search/fight type affairs, there are now many more of them – which means more loot.However, die-hard fans know that Diablo has never been about finishing the adventure, it's about levelling up your characters and discovering the most valuable items.D2 players were only able to trade between team members, but Blizzard has annexed all this into D3's own, secure but rather bleak Auction House. Now anyone can trade items for game credits or (among other players in your region) real cash with early visits revealing weapons and armour far in advance of anything NPC traders at my level in the game were offering.It remains to be seen how this will affect things in the long run, or how long it will take fraudsters, spammers and cheats to find some way to spoil the party. However, it's already clear that capitalism has arrived in Sanctuary – perhaps hinting at another motivation for D3's need to be always online.But there are other advantages too, most notably the way co-op play has now been fully integrated. This means you can instantly access a random four-player public game from the main menu, or start playing alone and then invite friends or the wider public to join in.Either way, the game registers which enemies you kill so that you don't have to fight off thieving teammates and all experience is saved to your player profile. Co-op D3 may feature the same single-player levels, but it's only here where you get to appreciate how months of beta testing have paid off.Having invested time and effort in levelling up a character, co-op is the best way to see the others in action and it's well worth the experience. Playing with a Monk/Witch Doctor combo is nothing like taking it on as a Barbarian/Wizard, and when it comes to customising your characters for co-op you need to consider how particular skill/rune combos serve the team rather than just yourself.The ultimate test of this character and stat-balancing act is Inferno – a rock hard difficulty level unlocked upon your character reaching level 60 at the hardest difficulty setting. With each Act then increasing in difficulty, adjusted to how many players are taking part, it's D3's ultimate challenge and will surely secure the game's biggest bragging rights for the team that first cracks it. Needless to say, I'm still many levels (and a lot of combat experience) short of that, but it's certainly something to aim for.So the key question remains, was Diablo 3 worth the 12-year wait? That depends on how you play it – for single players, it's an entertaining and gorgeous-looking dungeon hack but it's a bit short, extremely linear and hardly pushing any boundaries. Playing online (and Blizzard isn't really giving us a choice) makes it a better balanced and more compelling challenge, with all the potential to be the kind of lifestyle substitute that Diablo's legion of hunter-gatherer fans should relish.With global demand still in a feeding frenzy and PvP levels under development, let's hope the servers can cope.• Game reviewed on PC
Our second Apps Pitch comes from Swedish developer David Sjölander, explaining hisBuild Cars with Edward and Arthurchildren's app.What's your app called and what does it do?Build Cars with Edward and Arthur is a creative game where kids can create thousands of fun cars and then test-drive them on the race track. Depending on what parts you use the car will behave different when driving, you'll need better tires to splash through mud, bigger engine to go faster etc.While playing you'll collects stars that unlocks more car parts, and even additional race tracks with new challenges! You can also gain stars by building certain complete cars, or by building a very light car that can cross an old wooden bridge.This game is for children 3-7 years old. While the app does contain some text, it is designed to be played by non-readers. The goal for me was to create a game that parents will enjoy playing together with their children.What devices is it on, and what are your plans?It's currently available for both iPads and iPhones. I'd be happy to create versions for other platforms but those platforms are a lot more complicated with lots of different marketplaces and screen sizes.What's the business model and why have you chosen it?The game cost $2, and has no advertising links, social media connections or in-app-purchases. I would probably get more money if I used in-app-purchases to unlock more car parts, but as a parent I don't like that model in games targeted at children.What's innovative about the app – what sets it apart?I've put a lot of work in creating a game that is both creative and fun with quite advanced car-building, while still being intuitive for small children.I also hope that both children and parents see all the work and love I've put into the graphics. I tried to create something feels different from most iPhone games, and I'm very happy with how the game turned out graphically.What's the competition – who else is out there in this area?There are lots of apps for children on the App Store but, only a few good ones. I've got very positive reviews so far so I'm confident that the game is good, but it's still a major challenge to break through the noise in the App Store.As a Swedish game developer you may get great reviews and sales in Sweden, but it's extremely hard to reach parents in other countries.Tell us more about the company behind itWhile I've been building games for a long time, this is my first app of my own. I recently moved to the countryside on the Swedish island Gotland, and I guess the team consists of me and my two children.The developent basically worked like this: in the morning my four-year-old gave me assigments, like which new parts he wanted etc. When coming back from kindergarten he tested the game and hopefully gave it thumbs-up. He was a very strict project manager...What are your future plans?If there is big demand I'm open to create more car parts for the game. In the future I'd like to create more games with Edward and Arthur and develop their personalities a bit more than I did in this game.I originally created the characters for a children's book and would still love to see that printed. Both me and my children have lots of ideas of other games that we want to create!
A selection of 17 new and notable apps today:Morton Subotnick's Pitch PainterAs wonderful creative apps for kids go, this new music app is... well, wonderfully creative. It involves painting sounds onto the screen using fingers, then playing them back. Like a pixelly sequencer for children, with instrumental sounds taken from around the world.iPadApptivity Hot WheelsMattel has followed in the wheel-tracks of Disney'sCars 2 AppMates, releasing an iPad app that involves placing a toy car with special contact points onto the tablet, then driving around virtual environments. Nine challenges and Game Center functionality are included.iPadSolitaire by BackflipGames like Paper Toss and NinJump have made Backflip Studios one of the biggest indie names in free-to-play mobile gaming. Now it's turned its attention to a traditional card game. Achievements, different themes and "many ways to cheat" are all included.AndroidSongifyMusic apps developer Smule has ported Songify from iPhone to Android. The app – originally developed by startup Khush before it was bought by Smule – gets you to speak into the microphone, then turns your words into an Auto-Tune-style song. A novelty? Yes, but on iPhone it'snotched up 9m downloadsand 120m created songs so far.AndroidThe RegisterIT website The Register has more than 6m monthly readers, and now it's got a Windows Phone app for... Well, for whatever proportion of those people own Windows Phones.Windows PhoneTotal Euro 2012I'm battening down the hatches in anticipation of a deluge of Euro 2012 football apps – 98% of which will be more Wolves than Man City in terms of quality. Total Euro 2012 is at the top end of the table though: very detailed stats about teams, matches and players, with the promise of live updates throughout the tournament. A Statto's delight.iPhonegeoDefense SwarmBilling itself as "The Thinking Man's Tower Defense", this is the sequel to popular game geoDefense, offering eye-blistering neon visuals and 30 levels to work your way through. Although it supports Microsoft's Xbox Live community, interestingly its Windows Phone Marketplace listing also boasts of its integration of the cross-platform OpenFeint service.Windows PhonePotty Time with ElmoSesame Street's latest iOS app aims to help parents and children with their potty training. It's a book-app in which loveable monster Elmo potty trains his own toy Baby David, while providing animated stickers, puzzles and five potty-related songs.iPhone / iPadEsquire's The Big Black Book Spring 2012Esquire has launched an iPad app for its latest "style manual for successful men", filled with products, how-to guides and a guide to "the best barbers, cobblers, and all-purpose neck savers on the most stylish street in the world". Wherever that is.iPadTop Gear MagazineBBC Worldwide's Top Gear Magazine is the latest title to debut on Apple's Newsstand, selling single issues or 6/12-month subscriptions. It looks like a pretty straight digitisation of the print mag, rather than throwing in Wired-style interactive bells and multimedia whistles.iPadAboutOneThere's a big buzz around this new Windows Phone app, which organises memories, milestones and other information around your family and contacts lists. "A remote control for your life," promises its blurb.Windows PhonePython Bytes 3Third in the series of £1.99 apps gathering the best sketches from Monty Python's Flying Circus, this focuses on the show's third series, with the same shake-to-switch UI for accessing new clips.iPhoneFriskyElectronic music site Frisky has a new app for iPhone, promising two channels of mixes from top DJs: Frisky and Chill. The mood varies according to the name. It supports low or high quality streams depending on connection, plays nice with Apple's AirPlay, and will include exclusives from the likes of Dave Seaman, Hybrid and Nick Warren.iPhoneBloomingdale's Big Brown BagUS-only, for obvious reasons, this is an app for retail chain Bloomingdale's, helping people to shop on their iPhone, find their nearest store, manage wedding lists and get special offers. In-store barcode-scanning features are also included.iPhoneDirectionalLooking for a new quirky puzzler to while away the hours on iPhone? Directional is well worth a look: it's a block-clearing game with swiping controls, and two gameplay modes to explore.iPhoneWaviaryWaviary started life as an "interactive musical artwork" for iOS, but unlike many of its rivals, has now made the leap to Android too – good news for Google-owning creatives. Multi-touch controls promise "lush ambient soundscapes", as well as a mode that runs itself while you run.AndroidMynet TravelCancellations, delays and disruption on the UK rail network? Perish the thought! But if this is something you encounter regularly, the Mynet Travel app may at least clue you in on what's wrong, providing live information and the ability to share details with other travellers.Android / iPhone
Broadband companies are failing to offer a speed quote to potential customers in 41% of their sales calls, in breach of a code introduced last year to protect consumers.A mystery shopping exercise carried out for telecoms watchdog Ofcom tested how many broadband providers followed the rules by offering an estimated speed without prompting by the customer.TalkTalk was the worst offender, offering an unprompted quote in just 47% of cases, compared to an average across all providers of 59%. BT Total Broadband was the second worst, offering a quote in only 48% of calls.Since July last year, a voluntary code signed by all the largest internet service providers requires them to inform potential customers of their likely maximum speed, in the form of a range, as early as practicable in the sales process.This should happen well before customers are asked to place an order or hand over their financial details.The mystery shop, which involved 1,369 approaches online and over the phone, found that BT's agents only provided detailed speeds once the customer had agreed to proceed with an order.Customers need to receive the information in writing, in their online account details or be prompted to write down the quote.Both BT and TalkTalk have agreed to address the issue by amending their staff training and sales processes.A BT spokesman said: "Ofcom has suggested we should make a minor change to mention the speed quote earlier in the sales conversation, which we are happy to do and will implement straight away."Overall, Ofcom found that the level of compliance with the code has improved since our previous mystery shopping exercise in 2009."A spokesman for TalkTalk said: "No one enters a contract with us without receiving a speed estimate tailored to them. Anyone can log onto our website and get an accurate speed estimate, based on the capabilities of their phone connection."Speeds for customers on the same broadband package can vary widely depending on how far a home is from the local telephone exchange.Many broadband providers are now reluctant to advertise headline speeds, which means customers are dependent on individual quotes in order to compare services."If you are trying to get the best deal it is very difficult when there is such variability," said Ofcom director Claudio Pollack."What really matters is to be transparent to customers about what they are paying for, and give them the right to end a contract if what they get comes below that commitment."The best performers were Karoo – part of the Kcom group in Hull and East Yorkshire, which complied in 76% of cases – Sky at 72% and Plusnet at 67%.Overall, Ofcom found that the level of compliance with the code has improved since our previous mystery shopping exercise in 2009.Responding to Ofcom's research, Marzena Lipman, policy manager at campaign group Consumer Focus, said: "The most common problem for broadband consumers is ending up with a slower broadband speed than they expected."So, while it's good news there have been improvements, it is disappointing that this research shows many providers still aren't being as up-front with their customers as they should be."
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhat's the best cellphone ever &gt;&gt; Wolfram|AlphaChanged since last week.The Immobile Web &gt;&gt; Jason GrigsbySlides from a presentation by Jason Grigsby about smart TV. The key problem with Smart TV right now: you can't know whether or what you're supplying content to.An interesting case of Mac OSX malware &gt;&gt; Microsoft Malware Protection CenterIn June 2009, Microsoft issued security update MS09-027, which fixed a remote code execution vulnerability in the Mac version of Microsoft Office. Despite the availability of the bulletin (and the passage of time), not every machine is up to date yet - which is how nearly three years later, malware has emerged that exploits the issue on machines running Office on Mac OS X. Fortunately, our data indicates that this malware is not widespread, but during our investigation we found a few interesting facts we'd like to share with you.It's pretty sophisticated.Skylanders is bigger than Angry Birds, says Activision Blizzard &gt;&gt; VentureBeatFrom 9 May:In a conference call, Eric Hirshberg, CEO of the Activision Publishing division, made a surprisingly direct statement on the success of Skylanders, the new toy/video game hybrid for consoles and iOS devices. With 30m toys sold and $100m in revenue across toys and games in the quarter, said Hirshberg, Skylanders made more money than the entire business of Rovio's Angry Birds franchise. Rovio announced today that Angry Birds has been downloaded more than 1 billion times, across both free and paid versions.Skylanders is huge with kids with games consoles, who swap accomplishments in school playgrounds. They haven't gone away just because games consoles have arrived.Google in Africa: It's a hit &gt;&gt; The EconomistFaster downloading speeds have helped make Google's YouTube video-viewing more popular. Young urban Africans organise YouTube parties. The company is also trying to help African governments digitise information and make it freely available to their citizens. Many rulings in the higher courts of Ghana, for instance, are going online.Yet critics complain that Google is buying up enormous amounts of virgin digital land in Africa at virtually no cost. Within a couple of decades, without the regulatory oversight of the African Union or African governments, they say, Africa's internet life will be almost entirely in hock to the Google giant. Even the company's decision to go slow on seeking profits from Africa by offering cheap deals has been attacked by African would-be rivals, which say that such tactics are only extending Google's unfair advantage.Lightbox is joining Facebook! &gt;&gt; Lightbox blogToday, we're happy to announce that the Lightbox team is joining Facebook, where we'll have the opportunity to build amazing products for Facebook's 500+ million mobile users.This means we're no longer accepting new signups. If you're an existing user, you can continue to use Lightbox.com until June 15 and you can download your photos from here.Facebook is not acquiring the company or any of the user data hosted on Lightbox.com. In the coming weeks, we will be open sourcing portions of the code we've written for Lightbox and posting them to our Github repository.Chomp, chomp, chomp. Not buying the company, just acquiring the team.Steve Ballmer's Microsoft &gt;&gt; Dustin CurtisYou can call Steve Ballmer many things, but you cannot call him the"the worst CEO of a large publicly traded American company today"as Forbes's Adam Hartung did in a recent article. It's easy to see Microsoft as a bumbling fool of the tech world, but when you look closely at its business, the company's core competencies, and Ballmer's decisions, a coherent picture begins to form. It's a picture of a company being run from a very rational and respectable set of philosophies.Completely agree - the Forbes article is ridiculous linkbait nonsense. Read Dustin Curtis's piece instead: it's well-argued and rational.Robbie Bach's four startup lessons from Xbox and Zune &gt;&gt; GeekWireBach left Microsoft abruptly in 2010. Here he looks back at what Microsoft got right (and wrong) in the launch of the original Xbox and the Zune. As you may know, one of them went better than the other.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
It's the middle of the week. Is everyone on Diablo III yet?
General Motors, the world's biggest car company, has unfriended Facebook just days before the social media giant is planning a stock market sale that is expected to value the company at $100bn.The auto giant confirmed that it will no longer pay for advertising on the social network, deciding instead to concentrate on Facebook pages, which are free.GM is one of the world's biggest advertisers and spent $1.83bn on US ads last year, according to Kantar Media, an ad-tracking firm. The move is a blow to Facebook, which needs to ramp up its advertising revenue to justify its value.The story wasfirst reported by the Wall Street Journal. GM marketing chief Joel Ewanick told the paper GM "is definitely reassessing our advertising on Facebook, although the content is effective and important".The company confirmed it is dropping the ads but intends to keep using Facebook to promote its brands via Facebook pages, which are free."We regularly review our overall media spend and make adjustments as needed," Pat Morrissey, director GM product and brand communication said. He said it was "not unusual for us to move our spending around various media outlets, especially with the growth of multiple social and digital media outlets."In terms of Facebook specifically, we are reassessing our advertising, but we remain committed to an aggressive content strategy through all of our products and brands, as it continues to be a very effective tool for engaging with our customers," he said.GM has spent only about $10m on Facebook ads, a tiny fraction of the social network's $3.7bn in revenues. But it sends an awkward signal in a week when the company has been trying to convince investors that its advertising business underpins the massive valuation the company has received.Sam Hamadeh, founder and chief executive of PrivCo, an analyst, said: "This is an embarassment for Facebook, no question. They are one of the biggest advertisers in the world. You never want to see something like this come out, especially now."He said that it was difficult to measure the impact of display advertising for cars online. The adverts are meant to promote a brand to consumers who may not buy another car for months, possibly years.But Hamadeh's said GM's decision would inevitably make other advertisers look at their ad buying decisions.The news comes as a poll conducted by the Associated Press and CNBC found nearly half of Americans believe Facebook is a passing fad.Some 46% of respondents told the pollsters that Facebook would fade away as new platforms come along. About 43% believe the site will likely be successful for the long haul.
What is social media – I mean, as opposed to plain old media?That's the unexamined question that will only become more pressing – and less clear – whenFacebook shortly completes its IPO, with more and more people in plain old media feeling they ought to be in social media. And with more and more people in social media, with a $100bn or so of new liquid currency in the market, feeling it is the future of media.As it happens, the dual media have almost nothing in common except that they both occupy people's time and are supported by advertising. On the other hand, both try to pretend they are, or can be, like the other.Everybody in plain old media is trying to figure out some way to claim that it has a "social component", which means not much more than that it has a Facebook page and an employee with a title that involves social media. And everybody in social media is of the confident, but completely groundless, belief that what they are doing will sell products just as well or better than plain old media."Social is a fabric; it connects the individual nodes that make up the human network,"says Brian Solis, who describes himself as one of the most prominent thought leaders and published authors in new media. It is that kind of gas that has long confused the issue.Right now, the indisputable point is that plain old media, even as it steadily loses its claim on people's time, continues to attract a larger, and increasingly disproportionate share, of advertising dollars, just as social media becomes increasingly dependent on them.Eighty-two per cent of Facebook's revenues come from advertising– a much higher percentage even than that of plain old media.The television upfront season just beginning, wherein advertisers bid for space in the upcoming television year, is expected once again to make the point that advertisers, when it comes to paying real money, pay it to television. At the same time, this is confusing because brands and advertising agencies talk almost nonstop about their commitment to, and hopes for, social media. Likewise, social media itself has been nearly messianic, and largely unchallenged, in its entirely faith-based certainty that it is the future of advertising.In fact, as Facebook acknowledged last week, one of the few certain things about Facebook's future is that it will be increasingly a mobile medium, and mobile – in part, because there really is no room on the screen – is an even less hospitable advertising form than a user page.But back to the mix-up. It is curious that of the many loquacious, self-dramatizing, and overly social people at Harvard when Mark Zuckerberg was there who were destined for the media business (Harvard being a hot bed of television writers and media executives), Zuckerberg was not one of them. Mark Zuckerberg was their opposite, not only in terms of personality, but in terms of worldview. The media kids wanted to hold power over their audience; Zuckerberg wanted toempoweran audience.Giving power to your audience certainly seems to have a historical imperative behind it. But awkwardly, social media still depends on advertising which, fundamentally, depends in turn on a set of top-down manipulations that control what your audience thinks and feels at a given moment.Still, advertising is a supple, price-related form. One of the most successful forms of advertising ever is the yellow pages: its costs are low enough to make its relative lack of effectiveness still worthwhile to the advertiser, and there are enough advertisers, and yellow pages are cheap enough to produce, that it's profitable for the publisher, too. That's the Google model; it's the ultimate yellow pages.And that's the current Facebook model. It has so many eyeballs that it can sell them for next to nothing and because it doesn't pay anything for creating the content that the eyeballs are seeing, it's been able to generate some nice numbers. But its $100bn-plus valuation vastly exceeds the value of its relatively low value ads, meaning it really has to become much more like television than like Google.Except that it isn't television. It doesn't really even have an audience – that is, people thinking and feeling something similar (ideally, all at once). And it isn't run by people who even care about media – or doing what media does: that is, holding people's attention by means of pain, or charm, or jokes. (Facebook will eventually try, like all other internet companies, to hire media people – but they won't get the jokes.)Of course, the future is coming and we have somehow convinced ourselves that forward-thinking technology companies, by learning so much more about people's behavior and habits and knowing more about them than they do themselves, will somehow, with undreamed-of efficiency, sell them something. And these social media savants will be able to do this without having to rely on the much more mysterious and hit-and-miss process of producing good stories.Perhaps. Just don't call it media.
Twitter now has 10 million active users in the UK and 140 million worldwide, the company revealed on Wednesday, underlining the rapid growth in the microblogging network since it launched just six years ago.Twitter has had an increasing impact on everyday life: over the past year it has been blamed for inciting riots – a charge that was disproved – and of undermining superinjunctions involving, among others, Ryan Giggs and Jeremy Clarkson.The network, which limits users to 140 character updates, has also changed the dynamic between celebrities and the media. It enables people with a high profile to have direct contact with the public and many have jumped at the chance – the likes of writer and actor Stephen Fry, singer Lily Allen, footballer Joey Barton and politician John Prescott now have millions of followers.Independent studies suggest the UK has the fourth-largest number of Twitter users in the world, beaten for numbers only by the US, Brazil and Japan.Twitter says that compared with other online content sites, its users are particularly active in generating content: 60% have either tweeted or posted a picture or other content, but on YouTube, the world's biggest video site, sources say just 1% of users ever posts a video.However, the figure for active Tweeters suggests a high attrition rate: a study by research firm Semiocast in January claimed about 383 million Twitter profiles had been created up to the start of 2012, with about a third of those in the US. That suggests that about two-thirds of accounts had fallen quiet.The figures, revealed for the first time by the company, say that 80% of British account owners who logged in to the site over the past month did so from a mobile phone, compared with the global average of 55%. The figure has been put down to the breadth of mobile use in the UK.Although most users are almost certain to log in via a desktop or laptop computer at some point, a Twitter UK spokeswoman said "we have seen growth in the number of people signing up from a mobile".That, she said, "goes back to the DNA of Twitter" – which was originally set up in 2006 as a service that would work over SMS, which is why its messages are limited to 140 characters.Twitter use in the UK came into sharp focus in summer 2011 when it was initiallyblamed for inciting riots in Londonand other cities.It also saw a sharp peak in use in spring 2011 after the footballer Ryan Giggs sued the company when a number of tweets appeared alleging he had had an affair with a model – a claim which at the time was covered by a superinjunction.The many postings led Lord Judge, the lord chief justice, tocomplainthat tweeters were "totally out of control when it comes to privacy injunctions and court orders".Following separate court cases, a man who threatened the Tory MP Louise Mensch and another who tweeted abuse about footballer Fabrice Muamba have been found guilty of breaking the law.The company celebrates its first year of operating with a UK office on 1 June and it now employs 30 staff here.It has recently been proclaiming its growing success as an advertising platform, which chief executive Dick Costolo is driving through "promoted" tweets, trends and other paid-for content, known collectively as "promoted products".Since September last year, organisations including the British Heart Foundation and Cadbury have used Twitter to promote their services, while many others have taken advantage of the platform.Among those was theBig Green Bookshopin Wood Green, London, which tweeted on 24 February 2011 that without help, it would have to close its doors in nine months because it would be unable to repay a bank loan.The day after posting the tweet – which was picked up and became part of the "trending tweets" for the capital – the shop sold enough books to cover its bank loan repayments for nearly two months. That was followed by broader interest around the world and te shop is now trading healthily.Top 10 UK tweeters and their followers (drawn from worldwide audience of 140 million)1. Stephen Fry (actor, writer) – 4.3 million2. Jessie J (singer, judge on The Voice) – 4.2m3. Lily Rose Cooper [formerly Allen] (singer) – 3.5m4. Niall Horan (One Direction singer) – 3.3m5. Liam Payne (One Direction singer) – 3.1m6. Emma Watson (actor) – 2.8m7. Rio Ferdinand (footballer) – 2.7m8. Eddie Izzard (comedian, actor) – 2.4m9. Ricky Gervais (comedian, actor) – 2.3m10. Holly Willoughby (TV host) – 2.3m
Apple has removed claims that its new iPad has "4G" capability from its UK and other non-US online stores, aftercomplaintsthat its high-speed mobile connection could not work outside the US.'Cellular' has replaced '4G' in the mobile capability of the new iPad in the UK Apple StoreThe UK Apple Store nowdescribesthe mobile-capable device as having "cellular" capability, rather than 4G. The latter offers superfast mobile connections at speeds of up to 100 megabits per second.But in the UK there are no publicly available 4G networks, and those which are expected to come into service from the end of this year will run on a different frequency from those used in the US, where 4G (or "LTE") networks are being deployed. That means the latest generation of iPad will not be able to hook up to them, though it will be able to connect using 3G and the faster HSDPA and HSDPA+ connections.Previously Apple had been reported to the UK's Advertising Standards Authority for including the claim that the new iPad, released in March, had "4G" capablity. The ASA had said it had had more than 40 complaints.The Swedish online Apple Store still offers 4G, though compatibility is less clearSimilar complaints have been made in Australia and in European countries including Sweden, where the Swedish Consumer Agency had been planning to launch an investigation. The Swedish online Apple Storestill offers "4G" capability, although none of the networks in Sweden is understood to be able to connect to the 4G/LTE functionality.
Would you renounce your US citizenship for $39 million?If you're Eduardo Saverin, you might.A billionaire Facebook co-founder, Saverin renounced his US citizenship last year, although the decision was made public just days before the social network's anticipated initial public offering on Friday.Saverin, 30, is a 2% stakeholder in the company, according to the wealth intelligence providerWealth-X, which would put his net worth in the neighborhood of $2 billion after the IPO. (Some reports put Saverin's stake as high as 4%, but any amount below 5% does not need to be reported.)Facebookincreased the price of its stock Mondayin what will be Silicon Valley's biggest ever IPO, valuing the company between $93bn and $104bn.In unfriending the US ahead of Facebook's big day, Saverin, who currently lives in Singapore, stands to save millions in taxes."Eduardo recently found it to be more practical to become a resident of Singapore since he plans to live there for an indefinite period of time," Saverin's New York-based spokesman Tom Goodman said Tuesday in a statement, downplaying the tax savings as a primary incentive.Goodman added that Saverin plans to invest in Brazilian and global companies that have strong interests in entering Asian markets. "It made the most sense for him to use Singapore as a home base."But Wealth-X estimates his tax savings on his Facebook stake will be "at least" $39 million – 1 percent of his worth. Saverin will still have to pay a large exit tax for renouncing his citizenship, but Singapore is a low-tax jurisdiction and has no capital gains tax."This situation provides insight into a larger trend that has to do with competitive tax regimes in the United States and a broader debate about innovation and attracting human capital," David Friedman, president and co-found of Wealth-X told the Guardian.The move is also winning him a conservative fan base in the US. Forbes published an editorial lauding Saverin as an "American hero" for decamping.The Heritage Foundation's Mike Brownfieldwrote a blog postunfavorably comparing the US's economic freedom to Singapore's.Wealth-X's Friedman frets that the money Saverin saves by renouncing his citizenship will be more likely pumped back into the part of the world where he now resides."The Facebook IPO is going to create a massive wave of venture capital investment and a whole cluster of creativity," he said. "I suspect the money he's saving in taxes is going to go into investments in companies that are innovating and going to create new jobs."Saverin's spokesman confirmed as much to the Wall Street Journal."His decision had nothing to do with dissatisfaction here, but with a strong desire to do business there," Goodman said.The irony here, however, is that Saverin's is a quintessential American story. The son of a multi-millionaire, Saverin was born in Brazil but immigrated to Miami at 13 after being threatened by kidnappers. He graduated magna cum laude from Harvard, where he met Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg in his junior year, with a degree in economics.In a 2005 interview with his high school alma mater's magazine, he was quoted as saying "basically, Mark is the tech guy and I'm the business guy."The two had a falling out over the direction of the company and ultimately parted ways after Saverin sued for an undisclosed amount. The case was settled out of court, with Saverin reportedly receiving a 5% stake in Facebook, some of which he has since sold off.As a result, not everyone is calling him a "hero", however: an editorial in the New York Daily News said a tax doge "gives immigration a bad name."So in the end, the country that gave his family sanctuary when they were in danger may have become too economically punitive once he was able to cash out.
In this edition of Tech Weekly withAleks Krotoskiand Guardian Technology editorCharles Arthur, we look at the plight of Yahoo as turmoil at the top begs the question: what is Yahoo for?Telecoms correspondentJuliette Garsidediscusses a Guardian survey of UK broadband speeds and why it appears that we are falling behind in the global rankings.And Charles speaks to former Apple chief executive and Silicon Valley legendJohn Sculleyabout cloud computing, and why it will change health care provision in the US and innovate state services around the world.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Ministers should treat cyber security in the same way as drink-driving and launch a hard-hitting advertising campaign to encourage people to take more care online, Labour has said.Jim Murphy, the shadow defence secretary, said people needed to realise that failing to take responsibility for security should be regarded as unacceptable behaviour that was making life for easy for computer hackers and thieves.Businesses should be "kitemarked" on the robustness of their computer systems, he told a security summit in Westminster.Murphy said it was "not an exaggeration to say that the emergence of cyberspace is amongst the biggest changes in human history". He said cyber security could be the "arms race of the 21st century".Murphy committed Labour to ensuring that keeping safe online becomes an important part of the UK's national curriculum review, so that children realise the dangers as well as the advantages of going online."The government should also consider a public awareness campaign along the lines of those conducted against drink-driving, highlighting threats and action that can be taken to strengthen personal responsibility," Murphy said."For drink-driving, cultural change combined with government action turned what was once a social norm into an unacceptable behaviour in the eyes of the public and in law. We have to ask ourselves what the right combination of education and regulation is because we must develop a cultural intolerance towards aggressive or criminal internet use."With so many businesses relying on computers to store and transfer information, he said, companies had to spend more on their own defences because any security chain was only as strong as its weakest link.He said this was especially important in defence projects, where hackers could target small suppliers to get into the systems of the major defence companies."Kitemarks for those with high standards of cyber security must become a reality across the private sector," Murphy said. "The defence industry is one of the most at risk sectors and so the Ministry of Defence could work with business to set a series of benchmarks for firms' cyber security performance which would be taken into account when making procurement decisions."The government may also have to consider paying better salaries to in-house computer experts at the MoD and at GCHQ to stop them being poached by private companies.The Cabinet Office and GCHQ take a lead on cyber issues in the UK, and there is already aGet Safe Onlinewebsite to give advice about computer and online security. Experts believe the government should promote this more aggressively, in addition to focusing on more sophisticated threats.Murphy spoke a day after Philip Hammond announced the MoD budget for next year, which is known to include more money for cyber security in the department.In aninterview in the Guardianthis month, Major General Jonathan Shaw admitted hackers had breached the department's systems. He said the MoD was committed to higher spending in this area to stop further breaches.A veteran of the Falklands and Iraq wars, Shaw said: "My generation … we are far too old for this. It is not what we have grown up with. Our natural recourse is to reach for a pen and paper. And although we can set up structures, we really need to be on listening mode for this one. If we want to work the response, if we want to know really what is happening, we really have to listen to the young kids out in the street. They are telling us what is happening out there."
