UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 4 May 2013PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Dead Island: Riptide(18+)Xbox 360 (71)PS3 (28)PC (2)22 (2)Injustice: Gods Among Us(16+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (37)Wii U (3)33 (5)Tomb Raider(18+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (46)PC (3)94 (7)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (44)PS3 (29)Wii (8)VITA (7)325 (3)Dragon's Dogma: Dark Arisen(18+)Xbox 360 (63)PS3 (37)26 (11)Call Of Duty: Black Ops Ii(18+)Xbox 360 (62)PS3 (34)PC (3)Wii U (1)257 (6)Bioshock Infinite(18+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (34)PC (8)68 (8)Lego City Undercover: The Chase Begins(7+)3DS (100)29 (10)Luigi's Mansion 2(7+)3DS (100)610 (4)Star Trek(16+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (40)PC (4)211 (20)Assassin's Creed Iii(18+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (41)2712 (12)Far Cry 3(18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (41)PC (7)2313 (9)Defiance(18+)Xbox 360 (73)PS3 (23)PC (4)514 (14)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (22)PC (22)7015 (16)Lego Batman 2: Dc Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (35)Wii (17)PS3 (16)DS (15)4316 (–)God Of War: Ascension(18+)PS3 (100)517 (–)Need For Speed Most Wanted(7+)Xbox 360 (42)PS3 (39)VITA (17)Wii U (1)2618 (15)Sonic & All Stars Racing Transformed(7+)Wii U (35)Xbox 360 (23)3DS (20)PS3 (16)1919 (–)Grand Theft Auto Episodes - Liberty City(18+)Xbox 360 (66)PS3 (33)PC (0)1620 (–)Grand Theft Auto Iv(18+)Xbox 360 (66)PS3 (32)47UKIEGames Charts © compiled by GfK Chart-Track
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Star Wars: Disney, EA sign multi-year publishing deal | VG247EA has announced that it has signed an exclusive multi-year publishing deal with The Walt Disney Company for the Star Wars franchise, with games to come from BioWare, DICE and Visceral.The deal will allow Electronic Arts to develop and publish brand new Star Wars videogames for multiple interactive platforms.Apparently, BioWare, DICE, and Visceral will all be making new Star Wars titles. Another Knights of the Old Republic? A Battlefield-esque shooter set on Hoth or during the Clone Wars? A Dead Space-alike on the fall of Anakin Skywalker?Will Wright: Games "falling way short" as a medium | GamesIndustryThe veteran designer believes the industry is far from realizing games' potential; he also says EA's Sim City server problems were "inexcusable"This is from Wright's recent lecture at the University of California's Santa Cruz campus, entitled "Gaming as a lens on the world." He's giving another one this week atGame Horizonin Gateshead.Senior Scottish cop attacks online gaming after 13-year-old boy slashes a friend's throat following Gears of War 3 session | Eurogamer.netA senior Scottish policeman has called for a second look into the prevention of children playing adult-rated games online after a 13-year-old boy slashed a friend's throat with a knife following a Gears of War 3 session.The teenage boys fell out after playing the 18-rated game in Clydebank, Scotland, the Daily Mail reported from the High Court in Glasgow.10 rumoured Xbox 720 launch titles | The Official MagazineAssuming you're on good terms with ournext gen Xbox countdown, you'll know that Microsoft has a number of internal studios and third parties working on excitingly undisclosed projects, some of which are guaranteed to be Xbox 720 launch titles. Here's a round-up of the possibilities.Project Gotham, Fable and Halo all set to figure as well as more intriguing newcomers.Dara O Briain: My Favourite Game | Features | Edge OnlineVideogames may have increased their cultural reach, but building a stand-up routine around their quirks takes a brave comic. Dara O Briain took on the challenge and the results were so successful that he was adopted as a spokesperson for the hobby. We spoke to him just before he hosted the 2013 videogame BAFTA Awards.Fuck Videogames | Darius KazemiA somewhat polemical talk given by coderDarius Kazemion why games aren't always the best medium for self-expression.A lot of the perceived rewards of expressing something as a game are extrinsic rewards from the culture that's sprung up around gaming, and rather than chase those rewards in all cases, it's better/more rewarding to pursue the intrinsic reward of successfully expressing something on a case-by-case basis, in whatever medium fits that idea best. [...] buying into the idea that validation can/should/will come from a given culture is way more nourishing to that culture than it is to you.Sega: The Aliens False Advertising Lawsuit Is "Without Merit"A class action lawsuit claiming that Aliens: Colonial Marines used false advertising is happening. Today, SEGA—publisher behind the title—has responded with a comment."SEGA cannot comment on specifics of ongoing litigation, but we are confident that the lawsuit is without merit and we will defend it vigorously," SEGA told Kotaku.And from Gearbox:"Attempting to wring a class action lawsuit out of a demonstration is beyond meritless. We continue to support the game, and will defend the rights of entertainers to share their works-in-progress without fear of frivolous litigation."This is, of course, complicated by Gearbox boss Randy Pitchford allegedly claiming that early – and seemingly visually superior – demos shown at Pax and E3 were "gameplay footage".You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
Users of iPad and Android tablets might not have noticed, but a lot of them are "frustrated" because they "can't type, they can't create documents, they don't have [Microsoft] Office there". At least according to Bill Gates,who three years ago said of the iPad: "there's nothing on the iPad I look at and say 'Oh, I wish Microsoft had done it.'"But with total iPad sales since April 2010 already past 141m, and total tablet sales according to IDC at 253m – of which fewer than 2m are the Surface RT or Surface Pro – one might wonder whether he's right.Gates also says that a key problem for Microsoft in trying to grow its business in China is levels of piracy within government and large businesses there – a problem that it doesn't face elsewhere – and which has made it a "disaster" for revenue growth.Speaking to CNBC, Gates – who is also a member of the board of Berkshire Hathaway, led by the legendary investor Warren Buffett – said Windows 8 is part of a blurring of the distinction between the PC and the tablet.But he also thinks that many users of iPads – and, by extension, Android tablets – are frustrated because "they can't type, they can't create documents, they don't have Office there". That, he implies, means it's only a matter of time before Surface and other PC-tablet hybrids grab that market."Windows 8 is revolutionary in that it takes the benefits of a tablet and the benefits of a PC, and it's able to support both of those – so if you have Surface, Surface Pro, you've got that portability of a tablet but the richness of a PC in terms of the keyboard, Microsoft Office of a PC," Gates explained, when he was asked what's happening to the PC market – which, despite its swoons, still generates about $80bn (£51.4bn) in revenues annually."So, as you say, PCs are a big market. It's going to be harder and harder to distinguish products whether they're tablets or PCs, with Windows 8, Microsoft is trying to gain share in what has been dominated by the iPad-type device."But a lot of those users are frustrated, they can't type, they can't create documents, they don't have Office there, so we're providing them with the benefits of something they've seen and made that a big category, but without giving up what they expect in a PC."According to IDC, the Surface crept into the top five tablet devices during the first quarter of 2013 with 900,000 shipments, giving it a 1.9% share. But Microsoft has plans to expand its distribution and to revamp the Surface, withstories emerging of a new version in June– possibly offering a 7in form factor.Asked in the interview about Apple's plummeting stock price, and whether rumours that it will have a "lost decade" like Microsoft with slower growth, Gates doesn't mention Tim Cook by name, and gives an equivocal response: "Well, with tech companies, whoever's the leader is always questioned – [commentators] say is this the end of [the company], and there's more times people think that's the case than it really is the case, and eventually [the commentators are] right, and they say: 'Oh, we said these people would have challenges.'"But that's because the competitive landscape is changing: "we have some amazingly strong companies – Apple, Google, Microsoft – and companies coming up like Amazon, Facebook; Samsung to some degree belongs in that mix."If you do deep software both on the client, and deep services – if you have things that are unique for businesses, which is a particular strength for Microsoft, the software business is an amazing business to be in, both in terms of growth and the profitability dynamics."Finally he's asked about China, where slow growth has been a problem for Microsoft for years: an estimated 77% of the Windows and Office software used there is pirated. As Steve Ballmer has in the past, Gates ascribes that to piracy levels – though he goes further than Ballmer has by putting the blame on large institutions there."Well, China has been a disaster if you say per unit of your product that gets used, how much do you get paid," Gates explains. "It's been over 10:1 versus the United States, and even by 4:1 versus India, so it is a uniquely high piracy market. Now, the trendline [is], that number's been coming down somewhat."But the unusual element, he explains, is: "The place we have piracy in China that we don't have piracy in most of the rest of the world is government institutions, state-owned enterprises and large businesses. All over the world, you have the challenges when you get down to the consumer, even to some degree small business, but here we have a challenge with these large entities. It is improving, but fairly slowly, so there's a constant dialogue with the companies, the government about these large entities, how to get compliance rates up to be higher."
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamPredicting Google closures &gt;&gt; gwern.netGwern Branwen:Naturally, we are preached at by apologists that Google owes us nothing and if it's a problem then it's all our fault and we should've prophesied the future better (and too bad about all the ordinary people who may be screwed over or the unique history1 or data casually destroyed). But how can we have any sort of rational expectation if we lack any data or ideas about how long Google will run anything or why or how it chooses to do what it does? So in the following essay, I collect data on 350 Google products and look for predictive variables. I find some while modeling shutdown patterns, and make some predictions about future shutdowns.This is a truly awesome analysis. Seasonality, the "just survive this long" period.Researchers hack building control system at Google's Australian HQ &gt;&gt; Wired.comOn top of all of this was the accessibility they got due to the unpatched vulnerabilities."From that point we could have actually installed a rootkit," said [Terry] McCorkle, who first uncovered the Google system online. "We could have taken over the operating system and accessed any other control systems that are on the same network as that one. We didn't do that because that wasn't the intent…. But that would be the normal path if an attacker was actually looking to do that."A Google spokesman confirmed the breach and said the company has since disconnected the control system from the internet. Despite the "alarm" buttons on the control panel and the blueprint showing the water pipes, he said the system the researchers accessed can control only heating and air conditioning in the building. A report about the incident produced by staff in Australia, which Google did not show Wired, indicated that the system could not be used to control electricity, elevators, door access or any other building automation, the spokesman said.(Thanks @ClarkeViper for the link.)Exclusive: Jon Rubinstein joins board of mobile chipmaker Qualcomm &gt;&gt; AllThingsDKara Swisher:For Qualcomm, the selection of Rubinstein to join the board is also something to watch, as he is also the second exec from Silicon Valley to be tapped by the company recently. In March, Qualcomm hired tech investor Laurie Yoler as SVP of business development, making her "responsible for augmenting existing business relationships in Silicon Valley, as well as developing new strategic business opportunities for Qualcomm in the region."EU rules against patent play by Google's Motorola unit &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comThe European Commission on Monday made a preliminary antitrust finding against Google's mobile communications unit, Motorola Mobility, for seeking and enforcing an injunction against Apple in Germany over patents essential to smartphones and tablets.The finding, which could lead to a steep fine, comes as the commission tries to ensure that companies do not wield their patent portfolios to block others from using the technologies vital to developing some of the most popular consumer electronics."I think that companies should spend their time innovating and competing on the merits of the products they offer — not misusing their intellectual property rights to hold up competitors to the detriment of innovation and consumer choice," Joaquín Almunia, the European Union's competition commissioner, said in a statement.Looks like Motorola is going to cost Google even more. With those patents which Google valued at $5bn. Also in the EC's sights for similar abuse: Samsung. (Thanks @EasilyLead for the link.)It's time to reinvent the personal computer &gt;&gt; Mobile OpportunityMichael Mace:There are pending changes in interface, hardware, and software that could be just as revolutionary as graphical computing was in the 1980s. In my opinion, this would be a huge opportunity for a company that pulls them all together and makes them work.Introducing the Sensory ComputerI call the new platform sensory computing because it makes much richer use of vision and gestures and 3D technology than anything we have today. Compared to a sensory computer, today's PCs and even tablets look flat and uninteresting.There are four big changes needed to implement sensory computing.Now read on.. though 3D remains unpersuasive. See his guesses for who will actually implement this.Dilbert comic strip for 05/06/2013 &gt;&gt; Scott AdamsSurely not a comment on Yahoo's new policy? (Thanks @JohnnieGoat for the link.)Android virus scanners are easily fooled &gt;&gt; The H SecurityResearchers at Northwestern University and North Carolina State Universityhave discoveredthat anti-virus programs for Android can usually be bypassed using trivial means. The researchers developed DroidChameleon, a tool that can modify known malware apps in numerous ways to prevent them from being detected.Most of the ten scanners they tested mainly performed signature-based analyses. In some cases, simply changing the package name in the metadata was enough for virus scanners to consider the malware harmless. Several scanners could be fooled by unpacking the malware and then creating new installation packages. In other cases, the researchers were successful after encrypting parts of the app or redirecting function calls.Their conclusion is unambiguous: all ten anti-virus programs could be fooled in one way or another…The researchers' findings are a further reason for users to not allow the installation of apps from untrusted sources, also called sideloading, in the first place.(Thanks @rquick for the link.)Apple misses IPhone customers as global carriers balk &gt;&gt; BloombergApple Inc is missing out on a chance to court as many as 2.8 billion new smartphone customers, many of them in Asia, as wireless-service providers balk at conditions imposed by the iPhone maker and drag their heels in signing on as partners.Apple has announced fewer than a dozen new wireless-service providers to sell the device since September 2011, leaving the total at about 240. Holdouts represent billions of would-be subscribers in countries such as China, Japan, India and Russia, said Horace Dediu, a market analyst who runs Asymco.com. Samsung Electronics, Apple's biggest smartphone rival, sells devices through almost all of the world's 800 carriers, Asymco said.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday. How was your Bank Holiday?
The US Senate on Monday passed a bill aimed at ending tax-free shopping on the internet but the move looks set to face fierce opposition before it becomes law.The Marketplace Fairness Act, which has cross-party supporter and the backing of powerful retailers, would give states the power to require retailers with sales over $1m to collect state and local sales taxes for online purchases.The bill has the support of president Barack Obama the majority of senators including Republican John McCain but Marco Rubio, seen a potential Republican presidential hopeful, and Rand Paul both voted against the bill.The bill passed the Senate by 70 votes to 24 but faces a second test in the House of Representatives where internet retailers and conservatives are already lobbying against the tax. House leaders have yet to schedule hearings or votes on their version of the measure.The legislation would overturn a 1992 supreme court ruling that said a state could not force a retailer to collect sales tax unless the retailer had a physical presence in the state.The bill has aligned unlikely parties. Amazon, the largest online retailer, has joined its bricks-and-mortar rivals including Walmart to support the act. Amazon was once a staunch critic of the tax but as it has built more distribution centers it has become liable for sales tax in more states and is now a backer.The largest online opponent is eBay, which has campaigned against the bill and organised a mass protest by its sellers. Other opponents include numerous conservative and antitax groups including Americans for Tax Reform, FreedomWorks and Heritage Action.Ahead of the vote the National Retail Federation called for Congress to "level the playing field" and tax online retailers. "The Marketplace Fairness Act is a commonsense piece of legislation necessary to modernize and streamline our federal and state understanding of sales tax laws so that they can keep current with real world change in the marketplace," said NRF senior vice president David French."As the retail industry evolves and digital commerce becomes a more prominent portion of total retail sales, it is critical that the tax laws not discriminate between businesses based on how their products are distributed," French said."This collection disparity has tilted the competitive landscape against local stores, creating a crisis for brick-and-mortar retailers around the country and in your state," French said.
Israeli officials have reacted sternly to Google's decision last week to change the label on its home page in the occupied territoriesfrom "Palestinian territories" to "Palestine".The deputy Israeli foreign minister, Zeev Elkin, said the move to recognize Palestine would backfire."I think that the Google decision from the last few days is very, very problematic," Elkin told Israel's Army Radio,according to Reuters. "When a company like Google comes along and supports this line, it actually pushes peace further away, pushes away negotiations, and creates among the Palestinian leadership the illusion that in this manner they can achieve the result."Without direct negotiation with us, nothing will happen."The Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, through a spokesman, welcomed Google's move, calling it a "victory for Palestine and a step toward its liberation".Google "put Palestine on the Internet map, making it a geographical reality," an Abbas advisor, Sabri Saidam, told the official news agency WAFA.Elkin's comments echoed Israel's reaction to the UN decision last November to elevate Palestine to the status of nonmember observer state. Israel's UN ambassador, Ron Prosor, said at the time that the move "doesn't pursue peace. It pushes it backwards."Google stood bya statement it issued last weekabout the name switch. A spokesman for the company said: "We consult a number of sources and authorities when naming countries," and added that such sources included the UN.
TweetDeck Limited has been struck off the register at Companies House after Twitter directors repeatedly failed to file formal accounts for the company over the last eight months.San Francisco-basedTwitter bought TweetDeck, a popular Twitter app among users, in 2011 for an estimated £25m. Founder Iain Dodsworth was removed as director of TweetDeck Limited and replaced with Dick Costolo, Twitter's chief executive, and Alex Macgillivray, head of trust and policy.Companies House has formally written to both directors and issued them with a series of nominal fees for failing to meet the filing deadlines.Companies House records now show TweetDeck Limited as formally dissolved.A spokesperson for Twitter said: "TweetDeck the product continues to thrive as part of Twitter, but the old company has been dormant for some time, with no outstanding liabilities; hence our agreement with the move to dissolve it."Twitter is continuing to develop and refine the TweetDeck product, for which it acquired all intellectual property and assets under terms of the acquisitions.This week it is shutting down the Android, iPhone and Air versions to prioritise development of the more complex desktop tool. Nine full-time developers work on the product in London and more developers are being recruited.The closure of TweetDeck Limited will have no impact on users or the performance of the software.
A burst of 13 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGecko-like drone can land on walls and ceilings [updated] &gt;&gt; Popular ScienceWhy make a drone that can cling to walls and land on ceilings? Sometimes, there is no other surface available, especiallyin a city after a disaster. Also, given the finite battery life of a vehicle, the ability to transmit information from a fixed location would mean more energy left over for flying and spying.(Thanks @beardyweirdy666 for the link.)Interview: How Ray Kurzweil plans to revolutionise search at Google &gt;&gt; ForbesQ: it struck some people as surprising that you'd essentially become an employee after so many years as an entrepreneur.A: It's an opportunity to have impact. That's what motivates me as an inventor. A reading machine for the blind involved some scientific breakthroughs, but the real satisfaction is having hundreds or thousands of blind people saying it has helped them get a job or an education. Here you've got around a billion people who use Google. If I can contribute to that, it has tremendous leverage in terms of helping people. It really leverages human knowledge.Seems Google is getting into AI in a big way.An iPhone fan's month with Windows Phone: Week four &gt;&gt; TechHiveRemember this?After my third week with Windows Phone—following which I noted plenty of my complaints—I heard from a lot of ardent supporters of the platform. Some simply had different experiences than I; they found battery life superior on the Lumia 920 versus the iPhone 5 (I don't), or preferred its email client (which I find clunky and annoying). That's reasonable: This is exactly why they make both chocolate and vanilla.Other Windows Phone defenders, however, told me that I shouldn't mind the platform's weaknesses so much, because Microsoft has promised improvements are coming, like an enhanced TellMe (its version of Siri), a Notification Center counterpart, and so on.That's weird. I mean, it's not weird that Microsoft's working on those things—it's very, very smart—but it's weird to say that one shouldn't complain about weaknesses because the company says it's going to address them. I can't test vaporware, and I can't stick with Windows Phone just because there's a chance—no matter how good it is—that it will get better.As it's the season for such things, it also has lots of "what iOS should do is..."March 2013 US smartphone subscriber market share &gt;&gt; ComScoreThe market share numbers mask what's going on among Android handset makers: Samsung is gaining fast (going from 35% of Android to 41% since September 2012), HTC is losing users, Motorola and LG are very slightly up.What happens when pirates play a game development simulator and then go bankrupt because of piracy? &gt;&gt; Greenheart GamesGreenheart GamesIn-game message:Boss, it seems that while many players play our new game, they steal it by downloading a cracked version rather than buying it legally. If players don't buy the games they like, we will sooner or later go bankrupt.Slowly their in-game funds dwindle, and new games they create have a high chance to be pirated until their virtual game development company goes bankrupt.Neat illustration of life. (Thanks @clarkeviper and @blossiekins who sent this separately.)Horace Dediu on the bad habits of Apple analysts and why Tim Cook shouldn't be fired &gt;&gt; The Next WebTNW: At what point do you believe that the majority of people in emerging markets will own smartphones (if at all)?Dediu: The question is academic. The more important question is when will mobile broadband be available to all those who own smartphones. The economics of providing bandwidth are out of sync with the economics of providing terminals that can consume it. If it continues this way, all those smartphones will not be used for mobile data and will thus be essentially dumb.This is a key point, often overlooked.How I made porn 20x more efficient with Python &gt;&gt; ToptalA few years ago, I was working for the 26th (at the time) most visited website in the world — not just the porn industry: the world.At the time, the site served up porn streaming requests with the Real Time Messaging protocol (RTMP). More specifically, it used a Flash Media Server (FMS) solution, built by Adobe, to provide users with live streams. The basic process was as follows:The user requests access to some live streamThe server replies with an RTMP session playing the desired footageFor a couple reasons, FMS wasn't a good choice for us, starting with its costs, which included the purchasing of both:Windows licenses for every machine on which we ran FMS.~$4k FMS-specific licenses, of which we had to purchase several hundred (and more every day) due to our scale.All of these fees began to rack up. And costs aside, FMS was a lacking product, especially in its functionality (more on this in a bit). So I decided to scrap FMS and write my own RTMP parser from scratch.In the end, I managed to make our service roughly 20x more efficient.Actually a really interesting writeup of a challenging problem about multiple video stream demands.Let's cut through the Bitcoin hype: a hacker-entrepreneur's take &gt;&gt; Wired Opinion | Wired.comDan Kaminsky:Of all the millions of dollars of purloined bitcoin that's floating around out there, not one Satoshi of it has been spent. That's because while most other stolen property becomes relatively indistinguishable from its legitimate brethren, everybody knows the identity of this particular stolen wealth, and can track it until the end of time.A pallet of $100 bills that disappears in Iraq is a socialized loss against everyone who holds dollars. A million dollars of lost bitcoin carries its identity, at least as a traceable taint. This loss remains privatized, and it can be sued for, forever.There are a small number of choke points, which someday may be asked to honor these thefts. Will the currency translators accept the money? Will the mining pools? It's really an open question. We just don't know.Perhaps the best way to think of stolen bitcoin is as stolen art. Sure, we can hang it anywhere. Don't expect to sell it at Christie's. A resource that loses its value as soon as it is stolen, may be one that isn't stolen.Smart and realistic.Android licensing pacts ring up Microsoft's phone revenue &gt;&gt; NasdaqMicrosoft reports patent-licensing revenue with its Entertainment &amp; Devices division, which includes sales of Windows Phone, Xbox and Skype. In the quarter ended in March, that division's revenue jumped 56%, to $2.5bn."I think the bulk of the increase came from licensing," said Cem Ozkaynak, co-founder of Trefis.Microsoft declined to comment beyond what it has disclosed in securities filings.For the first nine months of fiscal 2013, Windows Phone revenue has risen $948 million including patent licensing and increased sales of Windows Phone licenses to manufacturers, the company disclosed in an April filing.Up 56%? Was there a concomitant rise in Windows Phone sales?Sony's first-mover disadvantage in smart watches &gt;&gt; BusinessweekPriced at $130, Sony's 1.3-inch touchscreen watch wirelessly connects to Android (GOOG) smartphones using Bluetooth technology. The gadget alerts users to incoming calls and allows them to reply to e-mails or texts with an array of prewritten messages. It even connects to Facebook (FB) and Twitter and controls a wearer's phone-based music library. The SmartWatch, about the size of an iPod nano, is a slightly smaller successor to Sony's LiveView watch.Gee, it's been out since 2010. Wonder why we aren't all wearing LiveView?LiveView had more limited features and was hobbled by kinks.The newer model [released in 2012] is more stylish, but users can't enter messages and it sometimes requires daily recharging and a stable connection just to tell time reliably. "Sony was ahead of its rivals to release a watch, but it takes more than an idea to create a hit product," says Mito Securities analyst Keita Wakabayashi.As the article points out, Sony has had - and missed - plenty of other first-mover advantages.First 24 Hours of Google Glass &gt;&gt; MediumAaron Henshaw:We are looking for new office space, so a few of us went to check one out in Chinatown [New York].I had never been to this building before, so when I got off the subway I asked Glass to take me to the address.Navigating with Glass is unreal. A Google maps navigation comes up on the screen, showing where you are and where to go. As you walk, it updates in your eye, so you only have to glance at it occasionally to see where you are going.Very impressive. And the reactions and experiences he gets are pretty much all positive.Cracking the search category problem &gt;&gt; blekkoizik is the iPad and Android tablet app from the search company Blekko:Search engines have been trying to divide results into meaningful categories — something better than "web, images, or news" — for many years without success. A few experimental search engines showed a list of categories on the left-hand side of the screen, and users rarely clicked on them to see what was inside. Now that the iPad has enabled easy horizontal and vertical swiping and scrolling, the user interface for exploring multiple categories of results is much easier and prettier. izik takes full advantage of that opportunity. But the second problem with categories is the one that izik has really solved: picking good ones.Has the potential to make standard "10 links" desktop search look like something done with a terminal window.Motorola asks Washington court to limit Microsoft's theories of damages for potential RAND breach &gt;&gt; The Essential Patent BlogIn the aftermath of last week'sMicrosoft-MotorolaRAND-setting opinion, the case will now to proceed toward an August trial date.  At this trial - if it gets that far - either Judge Robart or a jury (this issue isstill up in the air) will determine (1) whether Motorola breach its RAND obligations to the IEEE and ITU; (2) if a breach has occurred, whether Microsoft is entitled to damages as a result; and (3) the amount of any damages owed.Microsoft is demanding $11m in damages inter alia for relocation of a distribution facility in Europe, which it says it did to avoid a German injunction. Motorola was in effect demanding $2bn in royalties on Wi-Fi and H.264 patents; the judge decided it should be more like $2m.In other words, Motorola is costing Google yet more money.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Inside the tightly controlled security area of Symantec's Dublin headquarters, a screen on the wall  flashes up hacking hotspots as they are detected around the world. Last year the company estimated it blocked nearly 250,000 cyber-attacks. One out of every 532 websites was infected with viruses, it said, and 1.6 million instances of malware were detected.Overall, cyber-attacks were up 42% in 2012. They range from "hacktivist" targeting of industries such as defence to the fast-growing area of "ransomware" blackmail attempts, but more than a third of attacks focused on small- to medium-size businesses employing fewer than 500 people.Orla Cox, the senior manager of security response at Symantec's office in north-west Dublin, said hackers – including criminal gangs, individuals and even states – regarded smaller enterprises as "stepping stones" to enable them to attack larger corporations.In a briefing last week, Cox also said Twitter was perceived as a weak link. Last month Syrian hackers claimed responsibility for a bogus tweet from an Associated Press account that sent stock markets into temporary freefall. "The security of Twitter is not strong and Twitter is going to have to do something about that," Cox said.Symantec's Dublin hub, with 800 workers including 60 in its security division, plays a key part in global computer security because in terms of timezones it lies between the company's two other main operations, in California and Tokyo.The Irish office was the first to detect the Stuxnet virus, which has caused severe damage to the Iranian nuclear programme in Natanz. The virus, which entered the country's nuclear industry system via computers sold to Iran from Europe, caused centrifuges used in uranium enrichment to spin out of control. Symantec is reluctant to state its view on the origin of the highly sophisticated virus but most security analysts believe Israel was behind it.Cox said Stuxnet was probably not the end of it. She predicted those behind the virus were probably developing a new "son of Stuxnet" in the campaign to sabotage Iranian nuclear efforts.Ransomware has become a bigger challenge in the last 12 months, according to Symantec. The company has identified 16 cybercrime gangs using ransomware, which in the space of 18 days in 2012 alone infected 500,000 computers."It works by shutting down your computer with a virus and then sending out a bogus warning that a user has been looking at something illegal," Cox said. "They tell the user they can only get the computer back running if they pay a ransom, in some cases of $100, usually by buying a moneypack voucher and then sending the code transferring the amount to the gang. If the user for instance has been browsing a porn site they are going to believe the warning and pay up.Such scams netted the 16 gangs about $5m in 2012, she said. In many cases paying through an anonymous money transfer system did not necessarily ensure an infected computer was unlocked, the company pointed out. In some cases ransomware can capture images of the targeted user via webcam, which is displayed when a computer screen is frozen to intimidate the victim.Cox said there were now online toolkits hackers could buy on the internet to enable them to break into bank accounts. She said hacking into the financial system and online banking theft was mainly the work of gangs from Russia, Ukraine and other former Soviet states.Symantec also expressed concern about teenagers and young adults being targeted on Twitter, Facebook and other social networks because they were less guarded about their personal data and in particular their usernames and passwords. The company said the intersection of smartphones and social media would become an important security battleground.Cox said Symantec believed Apple products were less prone to attack, with iPhones for instance being safer because they are "completely locked down". However, she said Apple Macs are "not impervious" to hacking.In the last weekend of April the Guardian also came under a cyber-attack from Syrian hackers who have targeted a series of western media organisations in an apparent effort to cause disruption and spread support for Bashar al-Assad's dictatorship. The Syrian Electronic Army (SEA) claimed responsibility for the Twitter-based attack, having previously also targeted the BBC, France 24 TV, and National Public Radio in the United States.Cyber-attacks believed to emanate from North Korea have recently caused disruption to media organisations in South Korea.
The Chinese name their years after animals – the year of the goat, the rat and so on. In the tech world, we name years after devices. Thus, 2007 was the year of the iPhone and 2010 was the year of the iPad. It's beginning to look as though 2013 will be the year of Glass. This prediction is based on the astonishing level of comment, curiosity, excitement, trepidation and hostility surrounding an augmented reality device created by Google and calledGoogle Glass.For those who have been vacationing on Mars, I should explain that Google Glass (note the singular) is a headset that superficially resembles a pair of spectacles and contains a small mobile computer, a camera, a microphone and a tiny refractive display that projects a virtual screen in the wearer's field of vision. The computer is networked via Wi-Fi and Bluetooth andcan be activatedeither by touching the headset or by voice commands, as in: "OK Glass, take a picture."What Glass portends, therefore, is the prospect of wearable, ubiquitous computing together with what is sometimes called "life logging" – the ability to compilea detailed visual and audio recordof one's daily life that can be uploaded and stored in the cloud. (Google's cloud, needless to say.) Some people are wildly – nay insanely – excited by this possibility. Others are deeply apprehensive and the spectrum of responses suggests that Google's gadget has touched a nerve in a way that few technologies do.The headsets are not on general release yet, but Google clearly sees them as a mass-market product. Recently, the company started releasing "Explorer" (ie beta) versions to selected software developers and technology commentators, who paid $1,500 apiece for the privilege and, as a result, the first informed, critical assessments of Glass are beginning to come through.The most thorough and useful review I've seen is byTim Stevens ofEngadget. He found that Glass has a very simple, clean design. The headset is "no more or less uncomfortable to wear than your average pair of glasses", but people who normally wear spectacles can expect to have some difficulties. It's powered by an "ageing" TI OMAP 4430 processor, paired with 1GB of RAM and 16GB of storage and wirelessly pushes content to a Google+ account. The battery life is "poor" – about five hours of normal usage.There's lots more in this vein and it comes with the warning that what Stevens was testing was very much a prototype. The snags he identified will doubtless be ironed out before Glass goes into full production.But actually the technical problems are the easy bit. The big problem is the threat that Glass poses to privacy. One aspect of this is obvious: anyone in the same room as a Google Glass user can be covertly monitored. The saloon-bar challenge: "What you lookin' at, dickhead?" could suddenly acquire a new significance, not to mention a justification. "Imagine the near future," writes Shane Hegarty ina perceptive piecein theIrish Times. "Sometime next year. You, sir, are standing in a public toilet and a man sidles up to the urinal beside you. He nods at you out of politeness. You notice he's wearing glasses. Then the guy takes out his phone and snaps a picture of you going about your business. Something approximating a fuss would, no doubt,&nbsp;ensue."Quite. But that is exactly what Google Glass makes possible, without the cue of a cameraphone being produced. Once upon a time, we had just to put up with the ceaseless surveillance of CCTV cameras. But if Glass takes off, then thousands of people will effectively become mobile CCTV operators.And that's just the beginning of it. Last week saw the first indications of the other side of the coin: the way Glass can compromise the privacy of its users. Jay Freeman, a security specialist who specialises in smartphone security,reportedthat Glass could be hacked. Which means that a hacker could see all your passwords as you type them. And s/he could monitor your usage of otherwise safe, offline technology. Glass watches you enter door codes, can take pictures of your keys and records what you write using pen and paper. "Nothing is safe," writes Freeman, "once your Glass has been hacked."So you see why I think this might be the year of Glass. Google's new gadget is fantastically interesting. And very scary. As the man said, technology can be both good and bad – but it's never&nbsp;neutral.
When is free not really, quite, free? Well, EA's shiny new addition to its high-spec driving series,Real Racing 3(Firemonkeys, iOS/Android) won't charge you a penny to download it on to a chosen handset. So off you go, driving a gorgeously rendered automobile around a beautifully realistic track, swinging the handset from side to side to steer. The problems come at the end of the race. In-game currency has to be shelled out to repair the car, change the oil and generally keep it well tuned. It drains the resources to such an extent that if you want to upgrade the vehicle, or purchase a new one, it's nearly impossible without actually stumping up in all-too-real pounds. While the game itself is as enjoyable as ever, the balance between upgrading through skill or real-world wealth is all wrong.Cut the Rope: Time Travel(ZeptoLab, iOS, 69p/£1.99), in contrast, also offers in-app purchases, but this sequel to the enjoyable physics puzzler doesn't make it a requirement to enjoy the game. As before, the aim is to feed monstrous Om&nbsp;Nom some candy, but now he's joined by a fellow green blob – who changes outfits as the levels traverse the ages. It adds a variety to the challenge, without detracting from the expert craft of the puzzles, and&nbsp;makes&nbsp;for a sequel that builds upon what was great about the first instalment.
No other zombie game is quite as meta-fictional asDead Island: Riptide. While others are content to merely feature the shambling undead, here is a title that resurrects its first outing wholesale. And, just like a corpse left to rot  in the sun,Riptideitself is something you probably don't want to spend too long around.Apart from a new player character and a handful of fresh weapons, there's nothing new here. Offering another tropical paradise infested with flesh-hungry ghouls, more impromptu item-crafting, and fetch-quest after fetch-quest,Riptide'smonotony is alleviated only by the fun of teaming up with friends to zombie hunt as a unit – although disappointingly much of that fun will come from laughing at in-game glitches.
During its opening moments,Thomas Was Alonefeels a little familiar, taking the well-established form of an abstract puzzle-based platformer. Quickly, though, it becomes clear that this fascinating title, originally a cult release from the UK's indie games scene, is also blessed with sublime level design and huge imagination. As the player guides a series of polygonal forms with distinct abilities through elegant geometric landscapes, both the mechanics and game concepts are reinvented and reworked.But level design, striking visuals and sumptuous audio are not its greatest assets. What sets it apart are the themes and the stories, all delivered in a well-written script brilliantly narrated byDanny Wallace. As the game unfolds the polygons develop personalities, wrangling with concepts such as self-image, individual purpose and acceptance of difference. It's a remarkable achievement.
I don't really get it when people – usually only sad car blokes, to be fair – say some cars are sexy. People are sexy (well, one or two of them are). Cars are cars – too hard, too cold to be sexy. This one, though… Well, I may have to reconsider (or accept that I'm now officially a sad car bloke).It's not about the way it looks. Apart from its blue soft top, it looks pretty much the same as a&nbsp;regular DS3: striking, certainly, with a nod to the days when Citroën was synonymous with innovative design. I've always liked the DS3 – it's fun to look at, it's fun to drive – but never has it given me the actual horn. The possible sexiness of this new Cabrio comes from the way it&nbsp;behaves. Specifically, in the way it&nbsp;takes off its top.Convertible tops have come off in various ways over the years. It used to require a lot of manual unhooking and fumbling, and by the time you had done it, the moment had generally passed (meaning the sun had gone again and it was raining). Then they started to do it themselves, but you still had to stop them and it was still an inelegant, ungainly, frankly embarrassing procedure. Fold-away hard tops – such as on the Mercedes SLK and the Volkswagen Eos – brought a new wow factor, but it was still cold, hard, mechanical.This one, though… It unhitches itself, then slowly, teasingly inches&nbsp;itself back, folding itself away&nbsp;as it goes, revealing a little bit more, then a little bit more. It's automotive burlesque (which, of course, is just a posh word for stripping). There's even a pause, for drama, when it's nearly but not quite totally topless, and a final flourish, as the last bit goes. And there it is: the sky. You can even do it on the move.Phwoar. Impressive enough almost to make up for the fact that it isn't really a proper convertible. Well, it's got sides. With the roof in,&nbsp;its almost-all-the-way-gone position, it's like having a big sunroof. It's nice, but it's not wind-in-the-hair, romantic, open-top motoring (and it's an expensive sunroof, too).Go the full way, with the back window folded away, and it's a bit more like the real deal, but then there's no rear view, apart from through the wing mirrors. Oh, who cares what's back there, that's all the past anyway.There's not much space in the boot, and the letter box-like opening makes it hard to reach that space. I&nbsp;couldn't get our buggy in there.Oh, that doesn't matter, either. This isn't a family car, it's a car to have before you have babies. It's a&nbsp;car that might even get you in the&nbsp;mood for making one.Citroën DS3 Cabrio Sport THP 155 6-speed manualPrice£19,680Top speed132mphAcceleration0-62mph in 8.2 secondsCombined fuel consumption47.9mpgC02 emissions137g/kmEco rating6/10Cool rating8/10
A short, handsome man bounces outside the colossal courthouse on Walnut Street, Newark, New Jersey. He's doing it to keep warm – it is freezing today – and also because he's fired up. His name isAndrew Auernheimer, but he's known across the internet as "weev". His 20 or so friends are young and pale, as if they spend too much time indoors. One, a good-looking woman, starts crying."I'll miss you, darling," he says, hugging her. "Don't cry on me now. It's all right."Today is Andrew's sentencing. He&nbsp;has about an hour of freedom left. "Let's read some Keats," he announces. He opens his tablet: "'Poets and fanatics will be known…'" Ten minutes later: "I'm going inside. Let's roll."Now we're in the elevator. I hear his girlfriend say, "As Bill Hicks said, 'Hitler had the right idea. He was just an underachiever.'" Then she adds, "I'm being facetious. You should not kill anyone."We take our seats in court 5C. The ushers tell us to turn off our phones. It turns out that another man will be sentenced first. He appears from a&nbsp;door at the back. He's tiny, wearing a yellow jumpsuit emblazoned with the word "FEDERAL". Judge Wigenton takes her seat. She asks him if he has anything to say."Please forgive me for having committed this&nbsp;offence," he begins. "I'm totally repentant in&nbsp;my&nbsp;mind."He says he loves America and wants to apologise to everyone in the room. This is unnecessary, because practically nobody here has any idea who he is. This crowd is for Andrew Auernheimer. The man has committed some drug-trafficking offence. He's already been in custody for 17 months. After some procedural business, the judge sentences him to time served. He's free to go. She wishes him luck. He looks ready to cry. While this is going on, eight very large men file in. They're US marshals. They're here because Andrew won't be released today.Back in January,the young tech entrepreneur Aaron Swartzkilled himself. His body was found in his Brooklyn apartment. He was facing prison for downloading a mass of copyright-protected academic journals belonging to theMassachusetts Institute of Technology. It was hardly the crime of the century, and he'd probably have got not much more than a warning had federal prosecutors not intervened. But they did. They announced their intention to send him to jail for up to 35 years. It was like drawing battle lines between the old world that valued copyright protection and privacy of information, and the new world that valued the opposite. Swartz, who had suffered from depression for years, hanged himself. He was 26. He left behind him, among other innovations,Reddit, the open-source social media site, which he helped build.After his death, I became aware of lots of other Aaron Swartzes out there – hackers and pirates and activists facing prison for their ideology of internet freedom. It felt like a concerted worldwide prosecutorial effort to subdue a movement. So I&nbsp;began approaching them. I decided to contact only those people facing imminent imprisonment or trial. What in their lives had led them to that moment? How were they dealing with it?Some of them ignored me. I suppose if I were facing prison, paranoid that prosecutors would be scrutinising my every careless word, I'd have ignored me, too. But Andrew Auernheimer emailed me back right away.Now he stands up. Judge Wigenton asks him if he has anything to say. "I didn't come here today to ask for forgiveness," he begins. "The court should be making amends to me for the harm and the violence inflicted on my life. Many governments that have tried to restrict the freedom of the internet have ended up toppled."Seventeen days earlier. I'm eating lunch with Andrew. He's telling me a story. "I had a friend," he's yelling. "He was one of the most brilliant engineers I knew. He stepped into an alley and got beaten up by four black dudes. He got brain damage. This guy, who was shrewd and brilliant, is not going to be shrewd and brilliant any more. I&nbsp;understood then that I would be totally OK with 100,000 people dying to preserve my one friend who was brilliant."Considering Andrew's bleak future, I thought I'd take him somewhere fancy for lunch while I&nbsp;interviewed him. So I chose the elegant, wood-panelledCafe Sabarskyon Manhattan's Upper East Side. I have come to regret this decision because of his propensity to say incredibly offensive things in a very loud voice. Fellow diners are glancing at us."Wow," I whisper. "You'd be fine to let 100,000 people die to preserve one especially clever person?" I'm talking in a pointedly quiet way in the hope that he gets the message and adapts his voice accordingly. "Where does that come from?" I whisper. "It's completely irrational.""It'snotcompletely irrational!" he shouts. "Society is driven forward by a very small number of innovators. I don't care about people who have nothing but contempt for innovators. I have no sympathy any more for the dregs of society. I don't care if they live or die."Andrew Auernheimer was born in theOzark Mountainsof Arkansas in 1985. He grew up in a&nbsp;"crappy house in rural Missouri", hence, he says, his sanguine attitude towards prison. "Aaron was this wide-eyed, naive, liberal kid," he says. "I think that's why it hit him so hard. He thought he was from a special class of people that this just doesn't happen to. I've always known the government is out to get people like me. I'm poor and white and disaffected."As Swartz entrepreneured, Andrew trolled. He actually calls himself atroll, which is rare for trolls. "Not many people are happy to refer to themselves as trolls," I say. "What does the word mean to you?""Trolling," he says, "is the use of rhetoric in a divisive manner. It's something very deeply connected to the western tradition. What did Socrates do? He asked fucking questions that were intended to inflame. And they killed him for it. And he's a hero of history.""I have a problem with trolls," I whisper back."Why?" he yells."In satire," I say, "you only attack upwards. You&nbsp;only go for the powerful. Whereas trolls attack anyone."Andrew nods, but he counters that trolls only attack "public figures". His definition of a public figure, though, is anyone with a Twitter account or a blog: "People want to be this shining star of the internet. And then they can't handle it when their public despises them! Ha ha!""Sometimes you meet trolls in real life and they're really meek," I whisper. "You're not that.""Definitely not," Andrew yells."Andrew," I whisper, "the big difference between you and me is that I'm so much a part of polite society, I'm worried about the other people in this restaurant because you're being so loud.""Oh, sorry," Andrew whispers. "I apologise. I'll take the volume down.""I mean, look at everybody here," I whisper. "They're ladies who lunch.""I have a gregarious personality," Andrew&nbsp;whispers.For the rest of our interview, Andrew does indeed say everything in a considerate whisper. This is obviously difficult for him – anathema to his personality – and I start to feel bad for having mentioned it.Andrew first realised he was a "person of interest" to federal authorities in 2006. He was, he whispers, "banging this girl at the time. We were in Vegas. We were going out to the fucking desert to shoot off our fuckingAR-30sand whatnot, and she's like, 'We're being followed.' I'm, 'Are you're sure? Are you sure it's not the acid?' She's, 'I'm sure. I'm not tripping very hard.'""What's her name?" I ask, hoping I can contact her for fact-checking purposes."I do not reveal the identities of my sexual partners," Andrew replies. "This is not their struggle. Anyway, we started making a game. How can we ditch the surveillance in an as 'I'm better than you' a way as possible? So we take off in a fucking helicopter. We take speedboats toCatalina Islandand wave."I suspect all this – while unlikely-sounding – is true.When Andrew was interviewed by the New&nbsp;York Times in 2008, he turned up in a Rolls-Royce Phantom with "Claudia, a pretty college-age girl" in the front seat. (Today he turns up on the subway.)"How did you afford all that ostentation?" I ask."I fucked rich girls and partied and networked," he replies. "If I wanted to, I could certainly make a suitcase full of money appear. I'm an innovative guy. Anyway, when they finally kicked in my door, the warrant said I'd been known as a troll and a&nbsp;hacker and a target since 2001, when I was 15. So,&nbsp;apparently, I was being surveilled when I&nbsp;was a fucking child."The crime for which he's about to be imprisoned&nbsp;occurred in April 2010. Some security&nbsp;error in theAT&amp;Tweb department meant that any technically adept snooper could download the email addresses of 114,000 people who had bought a&nbsp;particular iPad. Some were luminaries, such asNew York mayor Michael Bloombergand soon-to-be Chicago mayorRahm Emanuel. "The&nbsp;technical content of this particular spectacle is probably the lowest I have ever done," Andrew says. "AT&amp;T admitted at trial that they 'published'&nbsp;this data."He and his friend Daniel Spitler thought it was hilarious. They sent each other messages debating what to do with the email addresses. Sell them? Phish them? (Phishing means trying to acquire information – usernames, passwords, credit card details, etc – for nefarious ends.) But instead they sent them to a journalist atGawker. That would be embarrassment enough for AT&amp;T, they figured. Within days they were arrested and charged underthe Computer Fraud and Abuse Act– the same act that felled Aaron Swartz."That's the extent of your crime?" I say. "And they want to put you in jail for up to 10 years?""Without the possibility of parole," Andrew says. He shrugs. "Powerful people want to throw&nbsp;you in prison when you humiliate them. And I'm going to do it again and again, even from a prison cell, ha ha!""No parole means there's no incentive for you to be well-behaved," I say."I've never had any incentive to be well-behaved," he says.Over in New Zealand, a similar fate threatens a&nbsp;very different man. Andrew Auernheimer says he's proud of his lack of assets. He doesn't believe in them.Kim Dotcom, by contrast, has more assets than practically any human alive. For years, this massively wealthy filesharing mogul was best known for the ridiculously flamboyant photographs he posted of himself online. Here was Kim Dotcom knee-deep in an azure ocean, pointing with one hand at a woman in a bikini splayed on the beach and with his other at his nearby giant yacht. Here was Kim Dotcom canoodling with a woman inside his beige private jet, and canoodling in a Jacuzzi, and dancing on a&nbsp;beach. His thumbs were forever aloft, his grin goofy. He looked likeJohn Candyplaying Al&nbsp;Pacino in a comedy remake ofScarface. And then he became famous for something else.Kim Dotcom: 'Prosecuting me is like putting a hand in a river. You can’t stop a river with your bare hands. Water just flows around them.' Photograph: Jessie Casson for the GuardianIn January 2012, New Zealand police launched, on behalf of the FBI, a dawn raid on his rented $30m Auckland mansion. They couldn't find Dotcom straight away. He was in his panic room. According to theSydney Morning Herald, they seized $100m-worth of art, cash, bank accounts and cars – a 2008 Rolls-Royce Phantom Drophead Coupe with the licence plate GOD, some Mercedes-Benz, and so on. The FBI called Dotcom the world's biggest profiteer of piracy, costing copyright holders&nbsp;– movie studios and record companies – $620m in lost revenue. He wasn't, personally, a pirate. But he had created a&nbsp;file-sharing site –Megaupload– beloved of pirates everywhere. It was a safe house for pirates, a&nbsp;secure site for them to share files too large to be&nbsp;email attachments.In retaliation for Dotcom's arrest, members of hacktivist collectiveAnonymoustook down websites belonging to the US Department of Justice and the FBI. I ask Andrew if he's sympathetic to Kim Dotcom. He shakes his head. "I know a lot of artists who make their money living off the copyrighted content they generate," he says. "I&nbsp;respect their ability." His own war, he explains, is against those monolithic corporations that wield intellectual copyright laws to stifle scientific innovation. "This app calledInstagramcomes along and suddenlyKodak is bankruptand they're very nervous and they're, 'Burn those witches over there. We are losing money. Make this stop.'"Andrew's voice is rising to a yell again, but I&nbsp;don't mind because we've paid the bill and so everybody knows we're going to leave soon."So it's their inability to adapt?" I ask. "That's the problem?""Yes," Andrew says. "They are hellbent on maintaining their position. If they have to kill every single person like me, they will. And eventually we will realise that we'll have to point guns in their faces and rip them out of their big towers and perhaps beat and tar and feather them in the street to send out the message that liberty is more important than you!""And by liberty you mean the freedom to innovate on the internet?" I say."Yes!" Andrew says.Kim Dotcom won't turn on his video Skype – "I&nbsp;am&nbsp;lying naked on my bed," he says – so we stick to audio. He's in his Auckland mansion. I've&nbsp;seen pictures of it. It's all giant fish tanks and novelty lampshades."When I see pictures of you, I'm reminded of Scarface," I tell him."Scarface?" He sounds hurt. "I wouldn't say&nbsp;Scarface."Then he tells me about his childhood. And his weird love of bling suddenly starts to make sense. Kim Dotcom was born Kim Schmitz in Germany in 1974. "My father was an alcoholic. He really beat my mother up. He broke her bones. Many times we had to sleep in the bathroom, in the bathtub, in the cellar, just hiding away whenever my dad was drunk. She went to hospital many times. We had to spend nights in facilities for women who ran away from their violent partners." Kim pauses. "I still jump out of bed in&nbsp;the middle of the night from nightmares, thinking my dad is doing something to us again."For this reason, Kim says, he has never tasted alcohol. "Would you believe that? Everybody thinks I'm this party animal. But it's not about the craziness of it. It's about the beauty of it. I love yachts. I love beautiful locations."Kim's parents divorced when he was six. His&nbsp;mother took two jobs to keep them afloat. Kim stayed home watching James Bond movies."I felt so amazed by the glimpse of that lifestyle," he says. "People had their own islands! They lived in supertankers! I felt at home when I was watching this stuff. Those movies talked to me."It doesn't dawn on me until later that the people in James Bond movies who have their own islands tend to be the super-villains.Kim became a teenage hacker, finding ways to pirate video games: "In school you were highly popular when you could share the latest games with your friends. But you have phone bills. So then I heard about this program called Blue Box that allowed you to call for free. I was, 'Wow! This is an exciting world!' I got hooked."One thing led to another, and soon Kim was hacking Nasa (where he failed to find evidence of aliens), running a messageboard for fellow hackers who wanted to swap information about the latest hacking tools. He took to engaging in epic battles with rival hackers. He'd hack into their bank accounts and change their debts, or their parents' debts. "Just messing a little bit with them.""Oh my God," I say."Usually they'd contact me and say, 'OK, enough. I give up!'" Kim laughs. "And then the war was over and won."I don't get many opportunities, during our two-hour conversation, to ask Kim questions. He is delivering a kind of sepia-tinted monologue. He couldn't be less like Andrew. Andrew is an ideologue, a desperado. Andrew says he's excited about prison. Kim really doesn't want to go to prison. He loves his wife and children. He loves his cars and yachts and beaches. Talking to me is a charm offensive born from desperate circumstance. And he is charming. By the end of his recitation – there are stretches lasting 25 minutes when I don't get a word in – I'm a jury member voting for acquittal. He says Megaupload is nothing more thana cloudservice, beloved by pirates simply because it's good and easy to use. He says he's never personally uploaded an infringing file, and their terms of service were always clear: "'You can't share things that don't belong to you.' And now they are trying to blame me for third-party infringements. The entire internet is used by pirates. YouTube is the biggest hub for piracy in the world!"He does have a point. In February 2011, NBC Universal commissioneda study to establish what percentage of internet traffic "involved the theft of digital assets". The answer: 23.8% worldwide."Prosecuting me is like putting a hand in a&nbsp;river," Kim says. "You can't stop a river with your bare hands. Water just flows around them."But they're trying. In Sweden, the founders of thePirate Baywebsite have each been imprisoned for a year. There are scores of others sharing people's data for different reasons – sometimes ideological, sometimes just for pranks, sometimes a mix of the two. There'sJeremy Hammond, facing life for hacking intoStratfor– a global intelligence company – and releasing millions of their private email exchanges. He was caught because another hacker,Sabu, the co-founder of the Anonymous offshootLulzSec, had secretly been informing for the FBI since his arrest 10 months earlier. Sabu – whose real name is Hector Xavier Monsegur – was unemployed and caring full-time for his two young nieces from a housing project on the Lower East Side of Manhattan. When he was told he could face 124 years in prison, and that his nieces would go into care, he turned informant.During the Stratfor hack, Anonymous members also stole subscribers' credit card details – to make $1m-worth of charitable donations with them, they said. An Anonymous person calledBarrett Brownpasted a link to the Stratfor stolen credit card data in a chatroom and was arrested in&nbsp;September 2012. He's currently awaiting trial in&nbsp;a&nbsp;Texas jail. Between sharing the link andthreatening an FBI agent in a YouTube video("Robert Smith's life is over. And when I say his life is over, I'm not saying I'm going to kill him, but I am going to ruin his life and look into his fucking kids… How do you like them apples?"), Brown could be sentenced to 100 years.In Shetland, another Anonymous/LulzSec hacker, Topiary – real nameJake Davis– was arrested in July 2011.A Daily Mail profilecalled him an autistic teen who was "so badly bullied [at&nbsp;school] that he left and retreated into a&nbsp;computer fantasy world". A few hours before his arrest, Davis deleted all his tweets except one: "You cannot arrest an idea."There are civil actions, too. For example,John Wiley &amp; Sons, publisher of theFor Dummies books– including BitTorrent for Dummies – is suing BitTorrent users for illegally downloading its books (although that particular book is not named in its lawsuit).A cloak-and-dagger meeting outside a subway station in Queens, New York. A battered car pulls up. The driver is young, white, of Spanish heritage and wears a big crucifix. I don't (still don't) know his real name. He says I should call him by his Anonymous name: Troy.He takes me to a cafe where he grumbles about how things aren't like they used to be, about the good old days when you couldn't leave your mobile phone on a cafe table around here without it being stolen. I tell Troy that the good old days sound terrible to me, but he explains that with gentrification comes collateral damage. The police are forever stopping and frisking young people like him who don't look like preppy hipsters: "Going to the store, coming home from school, ruining your whole day. It's disgusting." He pauses. "It's dangerous to walk the borders around here."It was these police inequities that compelled Troy to join Anonymous. I'm here to learn what the sustained prosecutorial bombardment is doing to the psyches of regular members such as him.As we drink our coffees, Troy gives me a history lesson on Anonymous's endearingly ridiculous conception. In January 2008,a secret in-house Scientology promotional video starring Tom Cruisewas leaked on to the internet. In it, Cruise announced that Scientologists were "the authorities on the mind" and only they were truly qualified to help car crash victims. The video went viral. Scientology lawyers swiftly sent take-down notices to every site they could, including the bulletin board4chan."People's lives are too sad not to have that to laugh at," Troy says. "Scientology fucked up when they started pulling that shit down from our room."That night, a bunch of 4chan users decided to form Anonymous. They instigated protests outside Scientology buildings and "DDoS actions" against their websites, taking them down: "Imagine sitting at a website and manually pressing refresh a few hundred thousand times," Troy says, explaining DDoS attacks. "People have made tools that do the same thing. You can set the refresh rate at, say, 800,000 times in a&nbsp;minute. Go off, have a cup of coffee, have a&nbsp;cigarette, two hours later the FBI's watching you. And all you did was press a button."When Kim Dotcom was arrested, Anonymous retaliated by DDoSing the Department of Justice and the CIA. After Aaron Swartz's suicide, they DDoSed MIT. "My favourite," Troy says, "wasOperation Payback." This was when they DDoSed PayPal for blocking donations to Wikileaks. "PayPal let you donate to the KKK but not to Wikileaks?" Troy says.Fourteen people are currently facing up to 15 years in prison each for the PayPal DDoS attack, including a 21-year-old woman called Mercedes Haefer, whoseFacebook pictureshave her wearing bunny ears&nbsp;and a comedy false moustache."Good people are going to jail for ridiculous things," Troy says. "People who get their kicks watching amemeof a cat are going away for 24 months, 26 months."He says anxiety and paranoia have wormed their way in. All his online activities are legal, he says, but sometimes he sleeps for only two nights in a&nbsp;month. He paces his room, researching countries that don't have extradition treaties with the US."If people cannot handle paranoia," he says, "then Anonymous is not the path to take."Mercedes Haefer: 'Being arrested is really fun. You get to troll the FBI.' Photograph: Mark Mahaney for the GuardianA vast and opulent loft apartment above an old grocery store in the Lower East Side of Manhattan. It belongs to thelawyer Stanley Cohen. He's spent his life representing anarchists and communists and squatter groups and Hamas. Sitting with him is his client, Mercedes Haefer. She's one of the PayPal 14. Her trial is impending. This is why, Stanley says, he has ground rules. He doesn't want the prosecution cherry-picking quotes to bolster the state's narrative. So he's going to sit in and listen. I give him a look to say, "I&nbsp;understand your position, but I'm worried your ground rules will make for a terrible interview.""It's fine," Stanley reassures me."So," I say to Mercedes, "how did you get involved in Anonymous?""She's not involved in Anonymous," Stanley interrupts. "We don't acknowledge that there's an entity called Anonymous."My heart sinks."This is one of their obligations in a conspiracy trial," Stanley continues, "to prove the existence of organised crime. They have to prove there's an entity called Anonymous. We don't say there is. In fact, we say there isn't. It is what it is." Stanley shrugs. "If you question her about how she got involved in internet activism, I don't have a&nbsp;problem with that."Mercedes laughs throughout this. She told me&nbsp;earlier that she has to laugh because if she woke up every morning thinking about the possibility of 15 years in jail, she might as well throw herself off the Hoover Dam, which is near where she lives in Las Vegas, where she's studying sociology at the University of Nevada."How did you get involved in internet activism?" I ask her."4chan," she says. "It's full of funny stuff. It's full of people being the worst of people, which, even when it's disgusting, is fascinating." She tells me a story. There was a 4chan user "who is genuinely in love with his dog, and his dog went in heat, so he went around collecting samples, and injected them into his penis, and got her pregnant, and they're his puppies." Mercedes laughs. "That's the thread I told the FBI about when they asked me about 4chan, and some of the officers actually got up and left the room. Ha&nbsp;ha!" She tells me other – less grotesque – 4chan stories, such as the time they tracked down a boy who was posting videos of himself on YouTube physically abusing his cat "and daring people to stop him". 4chan users found him "and let the entire town know he was a sociopath. Ha ha! And the cat was taken away from him and adopted."I ask about the attack on PayPal. She looks at Stanley. "You can say what they say you did," he tells her. So she does.It was 6 December 2010. "Flyers had been posted on 4chan and Facebook saying an action was going on and people could join a chatroom to get updated details. The bulk of the case is that I&nbsp;was a chatroom moderator."Stanley says the PayPal attack was not a success and that PayPal itself refers to it as "an attempt". "Being the macho pigs that those fuckers are," Stanley says, "PayPal sent their public spokesperson out there to basically say, 'They came for us, they're ridiculous, they did nothing, it didn't affect us, it didn't hurt us, we didn't lose a penny.' But then the Obama administration decided to make an example.""Why?" I ask."This is the government's way of saying, 'We're&nbsp;going to be an 800lb gorilla until we figure out the next level of foolproof safeguards,'" he says. "'Until we figure it out, if you fuck with us, we're going to burn you.'"The FBI showed up at Mercedes' apartment one morning at 6am. "I answered the door and they said, 'Mercedes, do you mind putting your pants on?'" She pauses. "To be honest, being arrested is really fun. You get to troll the FBI, you get to wear fancy handcuffs, you get to pick the music in the car. But the indictment was boring. I napped through it."I imagine federal prosecutors hope that the war on internet outlaws won't be like the war on drugs – dragging along for ever and destroying countless lives needlessly through the legal process. I suspect they're counting on pirates and DDoSers being easy to subdue with a few draconian prosecutions. In fact, both Mercedes and Troy tell me that since Aaron Swartz's suicide, people have been thinking twice about doing illegal things. But when I ask Mercedes if she thinks these prosecutions are going to end the movement, her response is trenchant and sharp."The police are trying to claim the area," Mercedes says. By "area", she means the internet. "Just like in the cities. They gentrify the downtown, move all the poor people into ghettos and then start trolling the ghettos, stopping and frisking people. They're saying, 'Look at what we can do to you on your own turf. This is not your space. It's our space, and we're letting you exist here.' People socialise on Facebook because where do you go to loiter in New York any more? The internet is our space and they're trying to take it, and it's not going to happen because it's the internet.""And you know more about how it works than they do?" I ask."Fuck them," she says. "They're idiots. If you understood medicine in Massachusetts at a&nbsp;certain time, you were a witch and they would burn you. There aren't a lot of people these days who can get past Facebook. So explain to them how a router works and you're a magician. You're a dark wizard. 'We need to lock them away for&nbsp;ever because we don't understand how else to stop them.'" She pauses. "Part of the reason all these kids have become experts on the internet is because they don't have power anywhere else. Skilled trade is shrinking. That's why they went there. And then, holy shit, it blew up."And so to Newark district court, where Andrew Auernheimer is giving his final words before the judge hands down her sentence. He says he seeks no forgiveness and that they should be apologising to him. Then the prosecutor, Michael Martinez, has his turn. He says that contrary to the defence's assertion that no great technical wizardry occurred during the AT&amp;T hack, itdidtake a brilliant brain, which is what Andrew has."He's tremendously talented with computers,"&nbsp;Martinez says. "In fact, only last&nbsp;night he was answering questions on the online forum Reddit…"Andrew's friends in the public benches howl with derisive laughter on hearing that his prosecutor was lurking on Reddit last night. He&nbsp;reads out some of the things Andrew wrote: "'I hack code in 11 different languages on a&nbsp;regular basis' and, 'I won't be nearly as nice next time.'He's going to reoffend," Martinez says, "and he won't be 'nearly as nice next time'. Those were his words last night."But Andrew is only half-listening. Instead, he's&nbsp;tweeting."Put that phone away!" someone shouts. Andrew keeps typing. All at once, the room is filled with violent commotion. The US marshals rush over to him. Within an instant, his face is pressed down on the table, his arms pulled behind his back. His friends let out horrified, startled gasps."Stay there!" the Marshals warn them.Five seconds later, Andrew is being pulled from the room. His girlfriend is crying loudly.His final tweet of freedom reads, I later see, "No&nbsp;matter what the outcome, I will not be broken. I am antifragile."There's a short adjournment. Then Andrew is brought back. His feet are chained together and the chain snakes up his legs and around his waist. With his black hoodie, he looks like a monk doing&nbsp;penance.Martinez picks up where he left off. He tells a&nbsp;story about Andrew. One time, he says, Andrew published a page on a site for trolls calledEncyclopedia Dramatica. The page was about someone called MG. MG begged Andrew to take the page down. It was "demeaning and embarrassing and hurtful", he emailed Andrew. Because of the page, MG had lost his job, and it was like being bullied in middle school all over again. "I&nbsp;am pleading with you," he wrote to Andrew. "Please at least take down the nude photos."Andrew emailed MG back: "$500.""His entire history puts his own interest above the interests of others," the prosecutor finishes. "What did 114,000 iPad owners do wrong to have their information given to a journalist at Gawker? Why should he be the master of our privacy?"It's time for the judge to pass sentence. Andrew&nbsp;will go to federal prison for 41 months. After that, there will be three years of supervised release. There's a fine, too – $73,000 restitution to&nbsp;be paid to AT&amp;T.Afterwards, Andrew's friends point out that on&nbsp;this same day two teenage football stars convicted of drugging and raping a 16-year-old girl in Steubenville, Ohio – videotaping her and urinating on her – are receiving sentences of one and two years.This all happens a few weeks before theBoston Marathon bombings– which turns out to be an enormously important moment for Anonymous. On 18 April, the police have the alleged attackers surrounded in Watertown, Massachusetts. An Anonymous Twitter feed –@youranonnews– is at least 20 minutes ahead of the mainstream media with the news of the ambush. With its access to police scanners and eyewitness reports, Anonymous is scooping the networks in terms of timing and accuracy. Great numbers of people are turning to them before they turn to CNN that night. I wonder whether actions such as Andrew's will become redundant as the group grows in credibility and maturity.A few days after Andrew is sentenced, I ask Paul Fishman, the US attorney for New Jersey, how he ended up with 41 months. "His accepting no responsibility," he replies, "his attempt to tweet from a mobile device between his legs in the courtroom during sentencing, and then pushing away the marshal who was trying to get the device – none of that helped him." Forty-one months was the maximum sentence for a hack such as his, Fishman says. The minimum would have been 33 months. Andrew got the maximum because – a senior justice department official tells me – the court has a "mandate to consider the characteristics of the defendant". It didn't help, I'm sure, that Andrew told Gawker in November 2012 that Judge Wigenton was "a mean bitch, I&nbsp;hear. I can see it in her eyes, she's a black Baptist Bush appointee."For the US attorney's office all this is, of course, black and white: "It's about stopping him, punishing him, and telling other people, 'You could be next,'" the justice department official tells me. "He can't walk into your house, look around, take a note you wrote to your wife, send it to the news media and say, 'Hey, Jon, you should have locked your door.' There's no altruism here. He's a self-aggrandising guy looking to enhance his own reputation by exploiting loopholes he's smart enough to identify." He pauses. "There's a perfectly fine argument to make for an open internet," he says, "but the law doesn't allow people to take matters into their own hands. There are basic rules. You can't steal other people's stuff. Even if you think people shouldn't own that stuff – that's not up to you."Back in the court in Walnut Street, just after the&nbsp;judge passes sentence, Andrew is led away in shackles. Before he vanishes, he shoots a grin to his friends and calls out: "All hail Discordia!"• This article was amended on 6 May 2013. The original said the publisher of the For Dummies books was suing BitTorrent users for illegally downloading its book BitTorrent for Dummies. That particular book is not named in its lawsuit. The original also described Aaron Swartz as co-owner of Reddit. That description has been amended to say he helped build Reddit.
Games out this week includeWorms: The Revolution Collection(Xbox) a mercifully 2D-only bundle of games featuring the now-venerable tradition of multiplayer militaristic vermiculture; turn-based strategy gameMight &amp; Magic: Heroes VI Shades Of Darkness(PC) is set 500 years before the previous instalment but will otherwise prove familiar;Mystery Murders: Jack The Ripper(3DS) is a hidden-object-finding game featuring London's best-known serial killer; Bejewelled-style match-three-gems gameAround The World In 80 Days(DS, 3DS) is fronted by a man in a top hat;Outdoors Unleashed: Africa 3D(3DS) lets you hunt a range of sub-Saharan beasts, ignoring all that tedious stuff about endangered species; while contrasting titleZoo Park: Run Your Own Animal Sanctuary(PC) has you taking care of animals without the use of firearms.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewYour character has been taken prisoner by the crazed magician Magusar. Fortunately, the skeletal cage he or she has been locked in also contains Librom, a sentient book with angry-looking eyes and a collection of bloodthirsty stories in which you control the magically charged antihero. The third-person action takes place in a series of spectacular arenas, whose detailed backdrops are artworks in themselves, framing battles with monsters that are every bit as rich. They come complete with elaborate backstories and amusingly macabre lore, each steeped in its own version of sacrifice; a theme that runs through every aspect of the game. Not to worry, though, because lost powers can be renewed with lacrima, the seepings of the book's grotesquely deformed eyes, collected by dabbing one gently with your finger on the touchscreen. A work of unhinged brilliance.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewDead Island: Riptide begins with an escape from the original game's zombie-infested holiday island. Your bunch of feeble-minded caricatures are then captured by the army and shipwrecked on a neighbouring island, which turns out to be identical in every respect, with the same huts, badly drawn jungle and nasty case of the undead. As before, you're there to do favours for people, which amount to fetching items that have zombies hanging about nearby. It's a mechanic that wears thin very quickly and is further undermined by the game's almost skill-free combat. Enduring some of the quickest-to-fail weapons ever implemented, you'll pour far too much time into repairing useful ones. Apart from a few innovations, this is the same game as Dead Island, complete with dated visuals and some head-shakingly terrible voice acting.
When the UN recognized Palestine as an observer state last November,Israel retaliated by announcing new settlements. Now an organization of arguably greater authority has recognized Palestine: Google.On Friday, the search engine changed the tagline on its home page in the occupied territories from "Palestinian territories" to, simply, "Palestine"."We consult a number of sources and authorities when naming countries,"a Google spokesman, Nathan Tyler, told the BBC. "In this case, we are following the lead of the UN, Icann [Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers], ISO [International Organisation for Standardisation] and other international organisations."What to call the area south of Lebanon and Syria, west of Jordan and north of Sinai that isn't Israel is a matter of fierce debate. Before 1948 the entire area, including present-day Israel, was called Palestine. In 1988, leaders of the remaining territory declared a state of Palestine, but the state has had trouble gaining recognition.In November's UN vote, 138 nations voted to recognize a state of Palestine, nine voted against and 41 abstained.Google's homeland, the United States, is currently the most powerful opponent of recognizing Palestine.
Forums are a fundamental building block of the internet, used by millions of people every day. So you need quite a bit of gumption to call the software behind many of them "broken" and "unusably bad."Jeff Atwood however has plenty of gumption. "Forums were broken. We fixed them," he says. TheStack Exchangefounder and software developer has aimed his guns at the bulletin boards that populate the web. He's doing it with his new project,Discourse– or, to give the full name, the Civilised Discourse Construction Kit. It went into public testing last month, and it's aiming to completely change the way we view online forums.In 2008, with StackExchange, Atwood and co-founder Joel Spolsky tackled the problem of question-and-answer sites, a genre which had been attempted – not with particularly good results – by Yahoo Answers, among others. They tackled the problems of spam, and "reputation", and voting, and created a network of sites covering everything from programming to physics to patents (and many other topics not beginning with the letter "p"), all using the same StackExchange software. It boasts millions of users.But Atwood felt there was still something not working about how we talk online."I felt a lot of fundamental stuff [on forums] was very broken," Atwood says. "On a typical forum, you don't really know when someone is talking to you. If someone replies to you, the onus is on you to figure out that they replied to you. There's no tracking if someone mentions your name. These are basic assumptions online now, and forum software hasn't evolved."Indeed, as Atwood says on the site's "About" page, "The state of forums has been unchanged for so long that forums are considered unworkable and undesirable; few sites want forums any more because the software is so poor."Arguably, forums haven't moved on much since the earliest CompuServe or WELL. The arrival of open source, the wider web, faster connections, mobile devices and much more powerful computers didn't make any difference to the quality of forum software.Companies such asphpBBandvBulletindominate the forum landscape, and all their products have a familiar structure. They're split into separate boards, each of which has dozens of threads attached to it. Users comment on the threads, and moderators ensure that things remain civil.Discourse treats things slightly differently. There are only two main sections: Popular and Categories. The former is a list of the most popular threads, while the latter splits them up into user-defined groups. Inside the threads themselves, there are no pages, just a constantly-scrolling list of comments. Write a post, and any links you insert will display a gorgeous-looking preview automatically. You can track posts, bookmark them and search, all within the software.There's an experimental forum where you cansee how it works.There are other advantages too. "Built into Discourse are a lot of really nice amenities for the community to moderate itself," says Atwood. "It has a flagging system that lets the software learn who hangs around and reads a lot, and it allows those people to flag stuff. You don't have to wait for a moderator to come around."Javascript in motionAccording to Atwood, the future of forums is open source (as many already are) and, crucially, tablet-friendly. While other companies like phpBB and Vanilla already provide open source forum software, Discourse sets itself apart by functioning more like an app than a website. It's built on Javascript, so it's not only highly resistant to the spam that clutters many other forums (which gets posted to static pages, but can't cope with Javascript-driven "challenges"), but also translates extremely well to mobile devices.While an early preview of the software shows that it certainly has promise, there are still some questions which Atwood and his team may find difficult to answer.One of the biggest stumbling blocks to anybody wishing to start a new forum is actually attracting users – what Atwood describes on the website as "building a tin shack in a wasteland." While he says that Discourse's built-in infrastructure will make is easy for users to participate, it remains to be seen how this will work in practice.There's an additional problem. Facebook and Twitter might not be typical forums, but they are huge online communities – and already deal with many of the problems that old-school forums face. Atwood, however, thinks that people still want their own space which they can control. "Fundamentally, everyone wants their clubhouse. Their house, their rules. If you're on Facebook, it's Facebook's rules. Same with Twitter."The Guardian decided to put Discourse out in front of other forum users online in the hope of getting some feedback. Bernard Helyer, a member of the ARS Technica forum, which is powered by phpBB, told us, "I think it has potential, but it's kind of moot without an actual community using it that people want to contribute to. The code's available, so someone could conceivably take this software, make some changes and make an awesome community with it."Kmote, a user on the vBulletin-built Tech-forums.net, thinks Discourse has a lot of potential. "As long as you have Javascript enabled it looks pretty great. If the admin functions are up to scratch (I dare say they will be) and it is relatively painless to install, I'm sure this is going to be a big hit."Yuriy Rusko, the project manager and director of phpBB – an open-source product, and one which allows users to track their mentions online – is more cautious. "While the idea that current forum software is 'unusably bad' would seem to be trivially contradicted by the fact that millions of people happily use it," he says, "there are undoubtedly ways in which it can be improved, and I welcome attempts by knowledgeable people to do so."Nevertheless, on the basis that "if you build it, they will come" and that open source software never actually dies, Discourse could be a key step in the development of forum software.
Apple will not release a large-screened "phablet" phone to compete with arch-rival Samsung this year, according to analysts, as the odds narrow that the technology group will release a cheaper iPhone to capture the pay-as-you-go market.Speculation over Apple's next big move is rife as a number of potential candidates – such as Apple TV or the iWatch – fall by the wayside. Having bought time from investors with the announcement last month of a $55bn (£35.3bn) share buyback, the company is expected to take a less radical development route by focusing on a cheaper, rather than larger, iPhone."The odds this year of a larger iPhone are zero," says Neil Mawston, executive director of the analysis company Strategy Analytics. Describing the new product as the iPhone 5S, he added: "That's what we're hearing from our supply chain sources in the Far East. It seems the iPhone 5S will be pretty similar to the iPhone 5."About 25m "phablets" – defined as smartphones with screens of more than 5 inch diagonal length – were sold in 2012, according to IHS iSuppli, which forecasts that sales will hit 60m this year amid strong demand for Samsung's Galaxy Note. That compares to forecasts of total smartphone sales of 908m in 2013.However there is growing anticipation that Apple will offer a cheaper iPhone to attract new buyers unable to afford the top-end devices. Steve Brazier, chief executive of Canalys, says Apple would benefit by offering phones in different designs and colours – as it did with the second generation of its best-selling iMac desktop computers in 1999. "Why should business people carry the same phone as teenagers?" Brazier asks. "Kids don't want the same phone as their dads."With the smartphone market growing less rapidly than it has,  analysts also question whether there is enough demand for a high-end Apple phone as prices are driven down by cheaper phones using Google's Android operating system – Samsung's main platform.The Chinese smartphone market  has taken over from the US as the world's largest and is the main location of growth. But most of the buyers there are opting for cheaper phones, and the iPhone's data system is not yet compatible with China Mobile, which has over 700 million subscribers.Yet even a fast-selling "cheap iPhone" would not have a dramatic effect on Apple's gigantic revenues and profits, according to estimates by Benedict Evans, a technology and telecoms analyst for Enders Analysis. In a note to clients seen by the Guardian, he calculates that a phone priced at $200 which sold 40m in a quarter – effectively doubling Apple's phone sales – would generate $8bn of revenue and $2.4bn in profit.That though would only have raised first quarter revenues by 8%, and profits by 4.5%. "In other words, a blockbuster new Apple phone that almost doubles unit sales and blows a hole in the middle of the Android market might only add 5% to Apple's gross profits," he said.While Apple has stayed silent on its plans, and declined to comment for this article, analysts see change to its product line as inevitable.Brazier says: "They have been slow to react to the fact that the market has changed. It gives them a huge advantage in economies of scale to build just one model, but they could have four or five. Look at the Mac [computer range] – they have those in all sorts of different sizes and shapes and configurations."Horace Dediu, who runs the Asymco consultancy, reckons that Apple is more likely to offer a phone priced around $100 or $150 – to minimise "cannibalisation" of its top-end range – and observes: "Apple is happy to expand its portfolio in the Mac, iPod and iPad. Why should the iPhone be exempt?"Apple's strategy may be glimpsed at its Worldwide Developer Conference (WWDC) in San Francisco in June, when it will unveil the look and feel of the next generation of its iPhone and iPad software, iOS 7 – said to be codenamed "Innsbruck" inside the company.The June launch will for the first time carry the imprimatur on the software ofJonathan Ive, the 46-year-old who has for nearly two decades been in charge only of the hardware design at Apple, heading the iMac, iPod and iPhone design.But since thefiring of retail chief John Browett and iOS chief Scott Forstalllast October – the latter apparently over theMaps fiasco– Ive has been put in charge of the "human interface" of the software too, making him one of the most powerful people at Apple.That has already led to changes. Forstall loved "skeumorphism" – making virtual objects appear like real-world ones – as seen when he demonstrated iOS 6's "Passbook" software for storing virtual tickets at WWDC in 2012. He showed how you'd delete unneeded ones: by putting them through a virtual shredder. Similarly, the "Find Friends" app (for locating phones) had faux stitched leather, and the Podcasts app displayed reel-to-reel tape – a technology that predates many iPhones' owners.But an updated version of the Podcast app removed the tape, replacing it with data about the episode being played. Ive is expected to "flatten" and simplify many other aspects of the iOS software.
Google Glass has captured the hearts of the tech elite, with its promise of the gadget of the future. Evoking sci-fi epics such as Minority Report, Google's vision of a fully-wireless, fully-immersive, tech-enabled existence has proven irresistible to those who have been allowed access. By Google's own account, the glasses seem to offer super powers.Sightings of the the wealthy, well-connected (and usually white) men who have early access to Google Glass are increasing but are this group the ideal early-adopter sample for wearable technology? Early reports aresuggestingthat thesefirst users are killing Glass's image.Is the potential of the technology so transformative that it will transcend such petty considerations? There's only one way to find out. The Guardian's Amanda Holpuch travelled to the global capital of hipsterdom –Williamsburg, Brooklyn– to ask the arbiters of cool.Tell us, hipsters, will Google Glass will be a success or will it go the way of theSegway?Reading on mobile?Watch the video here
The smallest flying robot in the world has completed its maiden flight in a US laboratory.The tiny machine, named RoboBee, took off, hovered and performed basic manoeuvres, to the delight of scientists at Harvard University.Inspired by the common fly, the carbon fibre robot has a wingspan of three centimetres and weighs less than a tenth of a gram.Flies are among the most agile flying creatures on Earth. The robot mimics their airborne abilities by tweaking the movement of two wafer-thin wings that flap at 120 times a second.More advanced versions of the robot may help with search and rescue missions, monitor the environment, and even assist with crop pollination, its developers claim."I want to create something the world has never seen before," said Kevin Ma, a researcher on the team.The robot's two wings are powered separately by tiny pieces of ceramic piezoelectric material, which expand and contract rapidly when wired to an alternating voltage.For the maiden flight, researchers attached tiny reflective patches to the robot that could be picked up by eight infrared cameras mounted around the room. The cameras worked out where the robot was, and in which direction it was facing, and sent the information to a controlling computer that sent movement commands to the machine over a wire tether. To move left, for example, the robot increased the stroke of its right wing.The robot was hooked up to an electrical supply because there are no batteries small or light enough to be carried by the machine.The scientistsdescribed how they built the robot in the US journal, Science. "No such vehicle has been demonstrated to date because of the severe miniaturisation challenges that must be overcome for an insect-sized device," they wrote.After the first tentative flight, the researchers aim to put the robot through its paces, with more aggressive manoeuvres and landings.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPad and iPod touch. It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases.Looking for Android apps? Check this week's30 best Android appsroundup, which was published earlier in the day.Here's this week's comparable iOS selection:SquiggleFish (£1.49)This week's most inventive children's app is undoubtedly SquiggleFish, which blends physical and digital play. The idea: kids draw a fish on white paper using a thick black pen for its outline, then scan it in using their iPad's camera to watch an animated version swim around a virtual fish-tank.iPadOnavo Protect (Free)Onavo's previous apps have become essential downloads for iOS users wanting to save on their data consumption and understand their data usage. Now it's turning its attention to security. This VPN app promises to protect you from "malicious, phishing and unsecure mobile websites", warning when you visit and blocking the harmful examples.iPhone / iPadAngry Birds Friends (Free)Angry Birds Friends isn't a new game, as such: it's been available to play on Facebook for some time now. This is the new mobile version though: Angry Birds given a social refit so that you're competing in weekly tournaments against your Facebook friends. Bragging and gifting is built in, as are in-app purchases.iPhone / iPadEvomail (£1.99)There's a flurry of activity going on around email and apps at the moment, as developers try to help people with overloaded inboxes. Evomail is a sleek, usable mail client for iPad, currently supporting Gmail only with more services to come.iPadUkulele Songbook: The Beatles (£1.49)For everyone who's bought a ukulele but doesn't know quite what to do with it, how about playing some Beatles hits? This app from Musicroom teaches you how to play 19 of the Fab Four's songs on a ukulele, providing lyrics and chords for each, plus a chord library to show you the finger-shapes.iPhone / iPadToontastic Jr. Shrek (£1.99)This app hopes to encourage the creative instincts of young Shrek fans, getting them to choose characters and scenery, then create their own stories starring Shrek, Fiona and Donkey. That means recording voice narration, and even collaborating with family and friends over the internet using its StoryShare feature.iPhone / iPadGinger's Birthday (Free)Kids love Talking Ginger and the rest of Outfit7's Talking Friends characters (Talking Tom Cat, Talking Angela etc). Now the first of those is back with a new birthday app: children will be blowing out candles, feeding Ginger and getting him to squeakily repeat their words.iPhone / iPadCloser UK Magazine (Free)Bauer Media's weekly women's magazine makes its way onto Apple's Newsstand, selling individual issues for £1.49 a pop, as well as subscriptions: £5.49 a month, £14.99 for three months or £54.99 for a year. The app itself essentially reproduces the print edition.iPadPiano Mania - Practice Game (Free)Music-education startup JoyTunes' new app is aimed at people learning the piano. The idea: prop your iPad up next to or on your piano/keyboard, then play along to the on-screen lessons, levelling up and accessing new songs to learn.iPadElmo the Musical – Storyteller (£0.69)This sits neatly alongside the Toontastic Jr. Shrek app: another familiar face for children (Sesame Street's Elmo) encouraging them to make up their own stories on the iPad. The scenes, characters and objects come from the Elmo the Musical segment of the show, and children can put their own faces in the stories too.iPadTraktor DJ for iPhone (£2.99)Native Instruments released its innovative Traktor DJ app for iPad earlier in the year, ditching virtual decks in favour of waveforms and a host of powerful DJing features. Now it's been released for iPhone, making the transition to the smaller screen impressively.iPhoneStar Command (£1.99)Those in the know about mobile games have been getting excited about Star Command for some time now, and early indications are it's worth the buzz. It's a sci-fi resource-management / strategy game where you hire and upgrade a crew, and fend off attacking aliens. The difficulty curve is somewhat steep, but if you relish a challenge you'll love this.iPhone / iPadCorbis Crave (Free)This is an app with a definite target market: "art buyers and art directors in the world's top ad agencies". Or anyone who likes browsing interesting photographs, of course. It's from stock photography service Corbis: an easy way to browse its collection of images.iPadDark Avenger (Free)Fans of dungeon-based hacking and slashing are well served on iOS at the moment, what with the recent Dungeon Hunter 4 and now this from Korean publisher Gamevil. It's a freemium game that sees you battling hordes of enemies, looting left, right and centre, and even battling other players over the network.iPhone / iPadSorcery! (£2.99)Talking of adventuring... This is an "interactive adventure" sitting midway between a book and a game, from designer Steve Jackson (of Fighting Fantasy fame). You choose your path through the storyline, fighting monsters, casting spells and exploring the fantasy world.iPhone / iPadGreat British Chefs Kids (Free)This app is a collaboration between the Great British Chefs website and Tesco Real Food, providing 105 recipes designed to be cooked by parents and children together. Step-by-step instructions, videos and high-resolution photos are included too. The link above is for iPhone, buthere's the iPad version.iPhone / iPadDeep Sea Deli (Free)Casual games publisher PlayFirst may be best known for Diner Dash, but it's got mobile ambitions beyond that. Deep Sea Deli is a puzzle-matching game starring a narwhal named, ahem, Narly. It sees you matching ingredients and competing against friends' scores, like a fishy Bejeweled.iPhone / iPadLego Star Wars: The Yoda Chronicles (Free)Several friends have practically foamed at the mouth upon being informed of the release of this game. It's the latest offshoot from Lego Star Wars, which sees you battling through eight levels as either Yoda or Count Dooku.iPhone / iPadMy Story World (Free)Appy startup Mindshapes was behind a "virtual reading world" called Magic Town, which got parents to subscribe for unlimited access to a collection of digital picture books. That's been removed from the App Store now, to make way for My Story World. It's a similar idea, but with more digital painting and colouring alongside the stories, and a cheaper £3.99-for-six-months subscription.iPadDabKick (Free)DabKick has potential: it's an app that connects you to friends or family for co-viewing photos and videos, and co-listening to music. "As you swipe through videos and photos, the person you are showing it to will have them glide across their screen," explains its App Store listing. Oh, and voice chat plus instant messaging is included to chat about what you're doing.iPhoneThat's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later in the day.For now, read on for this week's Android selection (and when you've finished, check outprevious weeks' collections).Angry Birds Friends (Free)Angry Birds Friends isn't a new game, as such: it's been available to play on Facebook for some time now. This is the new mobile version though: Angry Birds given a social refit so that you're competing in weekly tournaments against your Facebook friends. Bragging and gifting is built in, as are in-app purchases.Bejeweled Blitz (Free)Another big freemium-game hit makes its way to Android courtesy of EA and PopCap. Bejeweled Blitz is a reengineered version of the classic match-three puzzle game, with rounds lasting 60 seconds each, and the emphasis on power-ups and high-score tables of friends.Zeebox (Free)Second-screen TV app Zeebox has been available on Android smartphones for a while now, but this week it made its way to Android tablets too. The app is part TV guide showing you what's on, but it also pulls in tweets and lets you know what friends are watching, with some shows getting interactive content and shopping features within the app too.Tech. (Free)Tech. is magazine publisher Future's digital mag focused on gadgets and technology – a spin-off from its TechRadar website. Having launched originally on iOS, it's now on Android too, offering weekly £1.49 issues (plus subscriptions) for news and analysis of all things techy.AVG Memory &amp; Cache Cleaner (Free)AVG's latest productivity app for Android aims to clean up people's devices, erasing browser, call and text histories, zapping unneeded cached app data, and monitoring memory usage to spot processes that are slowing down your smartphone. At least, that's the promise.Sherpa Beta (Free)The latest in a new wave of "personal assistant" apps (think Siri), Sherpa was released in the UK this week after an earlier US debut. "TELL YOUR CELL PHONE WHAT YOU WANT AND TADAA! IT IS DONE" bellows the Google Play listening. Thankfully, you don't have to shout when asking it questions or giving it orders. It sends messages and emails, searches flights, gives directions, posts to social networks and other tasks.Loss of the Night (Free)This app wants you to contribute to a "world-wide citizen science project" that's aiming to measure light pollution and star visibility. "Just look up to the sky, find certain stars, and tell us whether you can see them or not," explains its Google Play listing. All measurements are sent anonymously to theGlobe at Nightdatabase, which is aggregating the data.Theory Test UK 2013 DTS (£0.69)Good news for Android-owning learner drivers in the UK: this is the latest version of the Driving Test Success app, which its developer says has been used by more than 4m people to revise for their tests. It's based on the latest 2013 driving theory test, with questions, mock tests, feedback and performance-tracking to ensure you're ready on the day.Punch Quest (£0.63)Punch Quest was marvellous fun on iOS, and looks just as good on Android. It's also the first game (to my knowledge) that lists one of its key features as the ability to "punch an egg that turns you into a magical gnome". It's a quirky, creative action game with a stripped-down control system that works perfectly on touchscreens.Dextr Email Beta (Free)Dextr is one of a clutch of startups trying to improve the way we read and send emails on our smartphones. Its Android beta aims to "cut out the clutter of your inbox and focus solely on conversations with the most important people in your life". With email overload a real problem for a growing number of people, if Dextr can nail it, this is sure to be popular.Player FM (Free)Looking for a high-quality podcasts app on Android? Player FM might just be it. The app aims to be a way not just to play podcasts from a range of sources, but to find new ones that you might like. It downloads new episodes to your device, but you can also stream – and if you have several Android devices, it'll sync your subscriptions across all of them.Fixya (Free)This handy app ties into the Fixya community, and aims to help you with broken products. "Ask almost anything by using your device's video camera to easily communicate your problem instead of trying to describe it with just text," explains the Google Play listing. "Helpful Fixya community members will watch your video problem and will try their best to provide you a solution." Potentially a godsend if you're not handy around the home.Switch to Windows Phone (Free)It's fair to say there are quite a few angry Android users because of this app, which Microsoft launched as a way for Android owners to check if the apps they like are also available on Windows Phone before switching. Criticism is focusing on how exact the "matches" are – sometimes they're similar apps rather than the same ones.Beautiful Widgets (Free)I know a number of Android users who swear by the Beautiful Widgets Pro app as a way to customise their home screens. This brand new (separate) version is free, enabling more people to give it a go. Weather, clocks, themes and other useful features are included, with in-app purchases to unlock them, or the option to earn virtual currency by downloading other free apps.Hell Yeah! Pocket Inferno (£0.69)Sega's latest Android game is definitely a keeper: based on console indie game Hell Yeah! Wrath of the Dead Rabbit. It's a side-scrolling adventure game that puts you in the shoes (well, paws) of "Ash, a devil rabbit and the Prince of Hell". 60 levels across six worlds provides a decent challenge.Weebly (Free)Blogging platform Weebly now has an Android app, aimed at getting a few more of its "millions" of users blogging from their smartphones as well as their computers. The app lets you post, check stats and respond to comments, and can be used to start a blog if you're not already a Weebly user.Ginger's Birthday (Free)Kids love Talking Ginger and the rest of Outfit7's Talking Friends characters (Talking Tom Cat, Talking Angela etc). Now the first of those is back with a new birthday app: children will be blowing out candles, feeding Ginger and getting him to squeakily repeat their words.Dave Daring (£2.28)Here's another app aimed at children, in this case pre-schoolers. It's a combination of storytelling and gaming based on hero Dave's adventure with his cat. The app, which is available in English, Dutch and German, has kids finding hidden objects, exploring mazes and learning more than 250 words and objects.Dust Fighter (Free)Well, this is certainly intriguing: a free mobile game released by Bosch to promote its range of DIY products that it describes as "the endless runner for real professionals". That translates to running a jigsaw along planks of wood, avoiding obstacles and collecting coins to upgrade yourself.XonoMail Beta (Free)Finally, another app to help with your groaning inbox. In this case, it "automatically categorises your email" if you're a Gmail user, although it also supports other POP3, Exchange and IMAP accounts.That's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
Google Street View has managed to capturebutterflies,people mooning,slow-walking pensioners,a couple faking sexand even been credited with inspiring a new wave of truly documentary photography.The company had experimented withextending the service on a commercial basis inside some shopsanduniversities, but the north's very own University of Sheffield has claimed the honour of being the first institution with buildings you can 'step inside' from Google's all-seeing Street View service.And it is not just one building; seven buildings in total are now fully open for prospective students, staff – or just nosy parkers – to have a look inside. Earlier this week the department of physics and astronomy was able tohost a virtual open day, and university staff are hoping the Street View will help the institution reach out to prospective students across the globe.Browsers are able to 'walk' the corridors of the physics department's Hicks Building to see computing and work spaces, navigating corridors in exactly the same way as roads are browsed on Google Street View. The images boast enough detail to read the title of a book on a shelf and you can even climb onto the roof and see vistas of Sheffield.The university's Information Commons is one of the first buildings to be given the Google Street View treatment. Photograph: Edward Miller/GoogleA philosophy and psychology graduate, Edward Miller, winner of the Sheffield Business Planning Competition, took the pioneering pictures. He said: "We will be releasing a number of buildings into Street View in different phases. We hope that the first phase will include buildings such as Jessop West, Firth Court and the Soundhouse and in the second phase the Students' Union and the Management School."The university's pro-vice-chancellor for learning and teaching, Prof Paul White, said: "The digital world is the future. Online education provides a means for the University of Sheffield to engage with learners from around the world and in circumstances we would otherwise never be able to reach out too."The full list of the buildings accessible via Google Street View are Information Commons, Hicks Building, Firth Court,Bartolomé House, Jessop Building (Department of Music), Jessop West, and the Sir Robert Hadfield Building. In order to 'step inside' the buildings, you need to navigate to their front entrances, and click on the icon showing two chevrons that appears.The university's commitment to digitising much of its resources has also led to a new initiative offering free online courses to learners across the globe. So far almost 1,000 people from countries including Brazil, Ethiopia and Nepal, have signed up to the first threeMOOCs (massive open online courses)in healthy sustainable diets, health inequalities and health technology assessment.A spokesperson for the University of Sheffield said: "Unlike other similar courses offered online [we] have established a unique platform for lecturers to share reading material, interactive quizzes and academic papers with learners – making the course much more engaging."Dr Michelle Holdsworth, of the school of health and related research, said: "Learners will be able to participate in webinars in real time and interact with fellow pupils and academics, as well as being able to pause the tutorials and watch them at whatever time suits them – whether that is in the middle of the night or first thing in the morning."Update:This article was amended on 4/5/2013 to correct a factual error. The University of Sheffield is the first institution to be directly accessible from Street View, not the first university to have had its buildings mapped by 360-degree panoramic photographs
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Wii U price falls to £149 in UK | Official Nintendo MagazineThe Wii U price has dropped to an all-time low in the UK with Asda selling Nintendo's console from just £149.Yes, you can buy a Basic Wii U (8GB Console) for £149 from Asda while Premium Packs (including a 32GB console and a copy of Nintendo Land) cost £199, a saving of £50 at the store.Not a great sign for Nintendo, I suspect, but surely very enticing to those who were on the fence about this idiosyncratic platform. Come on, ZombiU, Lego City Undercover, New Super Mario Brothers, plus Pikmin 3, Game &amp; Wario and Martio Kart on the way? Surely?Section 8 developer TimeGate Studios files for bankruptcy protection | PolygonTimeGate Studios, the Sugar Land, Texas-based developer of Section 8 and co-developer of Aliens: Colonial Marines, filed a petition for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in Texas Southern Bankruptcy Court on Wednesday, according to court documents obtained by Polygon.The petition filed by TimeGate lists less than 50 creditors owed money by the game developer and total liabilities ranging from $10 million to $50 million. TimeGate's top creditors include companies like Unreal Engine developer Epic Games, online game service Agora Games and transmedia developer DJ2 Entertainment. Creditors listed in court documents also include a local pizzeria, to whom TimeGate owes $34.80, and video game agency Birthplace Management Group, which is owed $20,539.20.The quest for Shadow of the Colossus' last big secret • Articles • PlayStation 2 • Eurogamer.netThis is a lovely feature about a diehard group of gamers still exploring Team Ico's PlayStation 2 masterpiece.So Ozzy turned to forums filled with likeminded, passionate devotees. At first he was looking for canny ways to defeat colossi faster, but he soon discovered something far more mesmerising. The hidden garden at the top of the Shrine of Worship, glimpsed during Shadow of the Colossus' final cutscene, was accessible in-game. This is Shadow Of The Colossus' biggest Easter Egg, teased by the mossy growths, handholds and ledges that weave around the exterior of the structure, but not actually reachable until you've completed the game multiple times. The Secret Garden, as it became known, is a final reward for the most dedicated of colossi-hunters: one last challenge and a glimpse of verdant green beauty in a starkly austere land. But it wasn't enough for Ozzymandias and his fellow fans."Are there other places you can get to?" Ozzymandias wanted to know. "What else is there?" he asked. "What else can you do?"The Weblog Here's what makes Ludum Dare so special | IndieGames.comA nice article summing up last weekend's game jam.Whether you're an indie developer or not, you'll likely have heard of the Ludum Dare 48-hour competition and game jam. Three times a year, hundreds of developers come together online to create games based on a set theme over a single weekend, and subsequently vote for a winner in the weeks after.Up until the start of 2011, Ludum Dare had a fairly sizable following, with around 170-240 indies applying for each competition -- but mid-2011 saw the gathering explode, first up to 600 submissions, then 900, until its record of around 1400 games last year.This record was shortlived. During last weekend's Ludum Dare #26, offering the theme "Minimalism" to its participants, 2347 games were created with 1715 submitted in the main competition. More than 2000 games that didn't exist before the weekend are all of a sudden readily available to download and play.Our of my NES hoaxes – Journey | MichafrarPixel artist Frar has imagined last year's PS3 adventure Journey as a NES game.Journey has some pretty landscapes. I wanted to imagine how an NES adaptation would be like. I tried to stick close to the NES limitations. :D I know it exceeds them, though.Go and have a look, they're beautiful.Jana Reinhardt's Blog - A Maze Indie Connect - German Indie Festival - 2nd Encounter | GamasutraAn affectionate look at Germany's A Maze indie festival:At the A MAZE you won't get lost in overcrowded conference rooms like at overpriced conventions; instead you will have time to talk to your favorite indies in a relaxing atmosphere full of inspiring and playful moments.This Shenmue Statue Is Ready For Forklift Races | Kotaku AustraliaAnnounced a while back, First4Figures' excellent statue of Shenmue's main character looks like it jumped straight out of your old TV and into the real world.TheRyo Hazuki piececomes with a Phoenix Mirror stand and measures 12 inches tall. You can get this tribute to the classic Dreamcast game later this year for $US185.Ryo statue. Photo: First 4 FiguresEver fallen in love with a statue you shouldn't have fallen in love with?You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
This week on Tech WeeklyJemima Kiss, Guardian digital correspondent, meets CEO and fonder of iPadio Dr Mark Smith. Mark discusses the evolution of his communications application company and why a sports reports app turned out to be just as useful for NGO's in disaster zones as it was for paralympians at the 2012 games.And Jemima visits east London's Google Campus, where she meets some of the young entrepreneurs and talks to campus head Eze Vidra about the role of the campus in the education of the young emerging tech community.
We're experimenting with different launch times for the Boot Up series. We'll fix on a time within the next week.A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamRogue employee turns gaming network into private Bitcoin mine &gt;&gt; Wired.comIf you've been playing Counter-Strike on the ESEA gaming network, you've been doing a lot more than tossing virtual hand grenades and firing virtual machine guns. You've been mining Bitcoins for an unnamed staffer inside the company that runs the network.The mining started on April 13 and may have affected as many as 14,000 gamers.Possibly illegal. Isn't it time someone wrote a book about "rogue employees"? News International, Google, and now ESEA...IDC: Android now leads the tablet market with a 56.5% share &gt;&gt; Android CentralJerry Hildenbrand:These sorts of numbers make CEOs and people who count pennies pretty happy, and will be the fuel for fanboy wars across the Internet, but why are they important? I'll tell you why - because the available selection of applications designed for Android tablets sucks.Google keeps telling developers exactly how to build their app to take advantage of the real estate on a tablet, but because there weren't that many out there, nobody listened. Sure, there are some really great applications done "right" and look fabulous on our tablets, but most of them are just the phone version blown up to fill the seven or ten inch screen on your tablet with unused white space. Have a look at iPad apps, and you'll know exactly what I mean.Hopefully, with more Android tablets being sold than any others, developers will take notice and change this.Only if they can monetise those apps. If they can't, then all that happens is that people have some cheap Android tablets and some blown-up apps, because why bother? (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)Worldwide tablet market surges ahead on strong first quarter sales &gt;&gt; IDC"Sustained demand for the iPad mini and increasingly strong commercial shipments led to a better-than expected first quarter for Apple," said Tom Mainelli, Research Director, Tablets at IDC. "In addition, by moving the iPad launch to the fourth quarter of 2012, Apple seems to have avoided the typical first-quarter slowdown that traditionally occurred when consumers held off buying in January and February in anticipation of a new product launch in March."49.2m total: more than desktops, and about equal with laptops. Apple's market share fell below 40% - but the market is growing so fast that in terms of actual units sold (comparing 1Q 2012 and 1Q 2013) it shifted nearly as many extra tablets year-on-year as Samsung did in the whole quarter (7.7m v 8.8m).The big difference is in "Others" - which now make nearly a third of the market, compared to a quarter a year before. Those are the cheaper Android tablets which are going to overtake the market this year.Window Socket – solar energy powered socket by Kyuho Song &amp; Boa Oh &gt;&gt; Yanko DesignNeat idea: a tiny solar panel that sticks onto a window and which you can then plug devices into. However, the total storage is only 1000mAh; it's not going to run your laptop. Mobile phone, perhaps - once it's charged. (Thanks @slimbowski for the pointer.)Mobile phone data redraws bus routes in Africa &gt;&gt; BBC NewsResearchers at IBM have redrawn the bus routes of Ivory Coast's largest city using mobile phone data.The research was completed as part of the Data for Development competition run by Orange which released 2.5bn call records from 5m mobile phone users in Ivory Coast.The anonymised data is the largest of its kind ever released.Such data could be used by urban planners for new infrastructure projects, said IBM.Discovery: they could reduce travel times for people by 10%. If they could have integrated it with bus timetables..Ghana's ISPs are dying out because the mobile web is booming &gt;&gt; QuartzGhana boasts Africa's highest penetration of mobile broadband, at 23% of the population in 2011, the latest year for which figures are available. That compares with just 7% in 2010. By contrast, fixed-broadband penetration stood at a negligible 0.3% in 2011, and that's killing Ghana's internet service providers (ISPs).For a time, running an ISP was a trendy thing. Some 150 companies presently have a license, and about 20 are operational. But many of them are finding it hard to stay afloat. Even cyber cafés, many of which are run by ISPs, are beginning to shut down. Ghana's biggest, which had 100 connections and its own satellite connection,closed in February.One would guess that mobile broadband is a lot higher than 23% by 2013. Another unexpected consequence of the rise of the smartphone: in effect, it drives arbitrage between pricing of mobile and fixed broadband.I'm still here: back online after a year without the internet &gt;&gt; The VergePaul Miller:I was wrong.One year ago I left the internet. I thought it was making me unproductive. I thought it lacked meaning. I thought it was "corrupting my soul."It's a been a year now since I "surfed the web" or "checked my email" or "liked" anything with a figurative rather than literal thumbs up. I've managed to stay disconnected, just like I planned. I'm internet free.And now I'm supposed to tell you how it solved all my problems. I'm supposed to be enlightened. I'm supposed to be more "real," now. More perfect.But instead it's 8PM and I just woke up.His experiment seems to indicate that actually you're pretty much the same person whether on or off the internet; but there's a post-connect or -disconnect phase when you behave quite differently.HTC and Samsung &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansBoth companies disclose a 'sales and marketing' line. For Samsung this includes activities for the TV and domestic appliance divisions, but the way the spending has grown in recent years suggests that the great majority of the spending is for mobile - and of course the brand is the same anyway, so advertising for TVs will also bleed across to phones.Where is this money going? Well, Samsung discloses a split in the 'sales and marketing' line - around 40% is advertising and the rest is 'sales promotion expenses' - a lot of which is sales commissions.In Q4 2012 Samsung's budget was 13 times HTC's. Samsung hasn't disclosed the Q1 number yet, but if it dropped to, say, $2.5bn in Q1, the same proportionate shift as at the beginning of 2012, it would be about 19 times biggerDumped! by Google &gt;&gt; The Last Word On NothingTienlen Ho:In case you're wondering, in the end, I was fortunate. By Monday, a Googler filed the right internal escalation paperwork on my behalf and on Tuesday morning, six days after I lost access to my account, relayed that it had been restored.My data was intact save for the last thing I'd worked on–a spreadsheet containing a client's account numbers and passwords. It seems that Google's engineers determined this single document violated policy and locked down my entire account. My request to get that document back is still pending.I returned to the Google fold with eyes wide open to my responsibilities as a user. In relationship terms, I am no longer monogamous."Dependence on one supplier" is the new monoculture.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
BlackBerry, long a fixture in the Pentagon, could shortly face huge challenges from Apple and Samsung for contracts to sell millions of smartphones and tablets to the US defense department. Both are expected to clear security testing which would let the US military buy their smartphones and tablets in the next few weeks.The Pentagon currently has about 600,000 smartphone users – almost all using BlackBerrys – but ultimately aims to have as many as 8m smartphones and tablets, under the terms of a scheme made public last November.While BlackBerry has long been approved by the Pentagon for secure use, Apple's iOS 6 and Samsung's security-hardened version of Android, called "Knox", are now being examined by theDefense Information Systems Agency."We are working towards establishing a multi-vendor environment that supports a variety of devices and operating systems, to include Samsung, Apple and BlackBerry," Lieutenant Colonel Damien Pickart, a Pentagon spokesman, told Reuters. "A key objective of the plan is to establish a department-wide mobile enterprise solution that permits the use of the latest commercial technology such, as smartphones and tablets," he added.However, BlackBerry could yet benefit from the arrival of its rivals because the Pentagon mandates the use of mobile device management software to control the devices and ensure their security. BlackBerry has proposed its Balance software to carry out that task.The Pentagon unveiled a plan in February aimed at giving the military services a much broader range of choices among mobile devices. The department currently has 470,000 BlackBerry users, 41,000 Apple users and 8,700 people with Android devices. However, most of the Apple and Android systems are in pilot or test programmes.Once the devices have cleared the process for creating a STIG – for Security Technical Implementation Guide – Pentagon organisations will be confident they have the necessary security configuration for use on the Defense Department's internal networks, Pickart said.DISA has already produced aSecurity Technical Implementation Guide for Apple's iOS 6 softwareon the iPhone 4 and 5. That shows that it would block access to the iTunes App Store, the iMessage messaging app and to the Safari browser on the device because – by defence standards – they pose a security risk. For web browsing, a third-party browser will be used and data will be routed through a Pentagon server.A full and final security review for Apple's iOS 6 system, for its iPhone 4 and 5, iPad and iPad mini is expected in early May, and BlackBerry has submitted security plans for its BlackBerry 10, BlackBerry PlayBook and BlackBerry Device Service, with a decision expected in a fortnight.Pickart told Reuters that Samsung's Knox version of Android is currently going through the security review process, with a decision expected in the next two weeks.The security reviews are part of the Commercial Mobile Device Implementation Plan unveiled by the Pentagon in February.Major General Robert Wheeler, the deputy chief information officer, told reporters at the time that the effort aimed to ensure the Pentagon's mobile devices, wireless infrastructure and mobile applications remain "reliable, secure and flexible enough to keep up with the fast-changing technologies of today".
Michael, Trevor and Franklin are standing in a back alley at night, wearing boiler suits and novelty masks. Michael has a plan about robbing a Gruppe Six security truck. He got the idea from a movie. It involves crashing into it at top speed and rolling it over. It seems like a good idea to the others. Trevor says he doesn't want to be too involved in the action; he'll cover from a rooftop. Franklin, in a Friday 13th-style hockey mask, will be in the pick-up truck that will perform the moving ramraid. This is it. This is how business gets done in Los Santos.Grand Theft Auto has always asked questions about games – especially violent games. In the same way that, say, Michael Mann and Brian De Palma make films that both surrender to and interrogate the beauty of cinematic slaughter, Rockstar has said, 'what does all this mean?'. And all the while it has got us to shoot and punch people and steal their cars, and it has got us to love doing it.Now Grand Theft Auto V is turning its impish, ironic eye toward Hollywood, the source of our unusual modern tastes in screen action. And what it finds is a den of delusion and disillusion. Los Santos is Los Angeles writ even larger, a town of ruthless crooks and conmen; more a dream sweatshop than a dream factory. This is a place where ambitions come, not just to die, but to be bludgeoned to death in back streets – mostly by men like Michael, Trevor and Franklin.Extreme sportsGTA 5: from city streets to lush landscapes. Photograph: Rockstar GamesThis week, Rockstar is showing members of the press a few new off-mission sequences from the game. In the first, we join Franklin, the youngest member of the cast and an inveterate adrenaline junkie – he's leaning out of a chopper 1,000 feet above the twinkling ocean. All the characters have their own favoured pastimes, their own ways of letting off steam. There's tennis, golf, cycling, hiking; there are stunt jump challenges. There is yoga. Franklin loves extreme sports. And so equipped with a parachute, he leaps out of the helicopter.And then he's free-falling over the sprawling countryside. We see the vast panorama of the game; the rolling hills and woodlands – the skyscrapers of the city glinting in the far distance. Below is a military base, where a cargo plane is swooping in to land. Franklin then floats in over Mount Jessiah where a mountain lion stalks a small gathering of deer. Rockstar has brought in all it learned about establishing realistic ecosystems from Red Dead Redemption, so the rural areas are filled with wildlife. And closer to land, we see young kids racing ATVs through the dirt, and a couple of men fishing by a wide fast-flowing river.The score is all throbbing ambient synths – part M83, part College, part Brian Eno. Rockstar isn't saying who has recorded it yet, but it is also there in missions during which the tempo cranks up in time with the action. Dan Houser told me that Rockstar doesn't really draw much influence from movies any more, but that whole Michael Mann feel is here again in this subtle, evocative soundtrack. And of course, there are dozens of licensed tracks, mining the same nostalgic veins as the classic GTA titles, Vice City and San Andreas. Radio Gaga, Radar Love, Waylon Jennings... all gloriously inappropriate for what's happening on screen.Swapping charactersGTA 5: explosive action. Photograph: Rockstar GamesOutside of missions, players can swap between the characters at any time. Hitting the D-pad brings up the selection menu and also a range of stats: each member of the trio has ratings for elements such as stealth, shooting, stamina, driving and, yep, lung capacity, and all of these gradually improve as the character employs them – a system reminiscent of San Andreas. They all also have one special ability, which can be instigated for limited periods of time. When Franklin's in a vehicle, he can slow down time to get sharper handling, perhaps to avoid a police stinger or navigate through a road block. Trevor can double his weapon damage for brief bursts of hyper-violence, halving the damage he takes in the process. And Michael, who already resembles a slightly older, more puffy Max Payne, gets a variant on bullet time. Once again, the more these skills are used successfully, the more they evolve.When you switch to a different protagonist, you'll join the new guy in one of many interesting, unusual or downright disturbing activities. Trevor will usually be out in the desert, Michael in town or slumped at home in front of some Vinewood action flick, sinking bourbon. You're never quite sure what you'll get. To show this off, our Rockstar representative switches from Franklin to Trevor, and we join him on a beach dressed only in Y-fronts and surrounded by dead bodies. It turns out he has had a run-in with the West Coast chapter of The Lost, the motorbike gang that turned up in GTA IV and its subsequent DLC. There's a running feud going on throughout this game over drugs or territory or both. Trevor then jumps into a Zodiac inflatable power boat and scorches off along the coast. The surface ripples with impressive authenticity, and the sea will apparently react to realistic weather conditions – if there's a storm, things get very choppy.Some water vehicles, including this one, come with scuba equipment, so Trevor suits up and dives into the brine. Below the waterline there's as much detail as above, with schools of fish swimming between reefs and sharks lurking in the darkness. In our demo, Trevor happens upon a sunken cargo boat, which may well hide some lucrative booty. Apparently the game is full of this sort of thing; little explorable scenes that offer rewards for curious players.GTA 5: Trevor gets deep. Photograph: Rockstar GamesBut we're not staying. Instead we switch into Michael, who's loafing about outside the Crastenburg Hotel on Vinewood Boulevard. He wanders the wide streets, surrounded by restaurants and nightclubs – he could apparently step into a tattoo parlour and get inked; or hop on that bus and get a guided tour of film star homes. The pavement is crowded with misfits and failures, the flotsam and jetsam of a dying movie town; apparently there will be four times as many pedestrians as in the last title. Michael is accosted by ruined soft porn dropout Pamela Drake: "They wrote a Slut in Paris just for me," she drawls as he passes. There has, I suddenly realise, been a total vacuum of sympathetic female characters so far. Sure, the men are thugs and losers too, but we get to control those guys – I hope there are some meatier roles for women in this world, something beyond spoiled princesses and porn flick rejects.Michael walks on; past two men dressed as superheroes, charging passers-by for photos. One is decked up as a Republican Space Ranger, the in-game cartoon from GTA IV, set to make a reappearance on TVs in the new title. The other is a fresh character for GTA V, a pathetic caped crusader named Impotent Rage who'll get his own series. If you want, you can take out your smartphone while exploring and take a picture with its camera. This can then be uploaded to Rockstar's Social Club site. The touchscreen smartphone, hugely modernised since GTA IV of course, also lets you browse the in-game web, catch up on emails (where side-missions are often revealed) and access a new social networking feature, which Rockstar is saving for another press event.Next, Michael blunders into one of the game's many dynamic missions, which show up on the mini-map as question marks. These are all highly contextual, based on the location, time and the character you're currently playing; it might be helping out a stranded motorist in the mountains, or – as in this case – helping a Vinewood starlet who's been hijacked by the paparazzi and needs help getting to her car. Michael leaps into the flashy convertible, backs it up so that she can clamber in, then screeches off toward her apartment in the Rockford Hills. This is Janey Jonas, a nightmarishly self-obsessed teen starlet, incredulous that Michael hasn't heard of her ("I'm the voice of a generation!") and adamant that this is just a standard commute for a hot actress in Vinewood. Whatever, when Michael drops her off, she pays him $150. It's a neat, amusing little cameo and it fits in with what Dan Houser said about GTA V being a sort of post-Hollywood pastiche: the real movie actors have left town and all that's left are the wash-ups and the preening monied rent-a-stars.GTA 5: Frankin in the spotlight. Photograph: Rockstar GamesBeyond these asides is the backbone of the game: the story. As mentioned before, GTA V will have a narrative throughline that encompasses the individual biographies of the three characters. Missions will feed into this to create a linear pathway – and strewn along it are eight epic heists that provide the big set-piece moments. Players will need to prepare for these with smaller sub-tasks, but you're always able to drop in and out of these objectives – you're never locked into a long stretch of mandatory missions.Some tasks will require the recruitment of other characters outside the three leads. Players will be able to select their own teams, choosing drivers, marksmen, etc, as well as customising weapons and vehicles. You'll have the option of going for cheaper, less reliable cohorts, or super-capable professionals who'll expect a much bigger cut of the earnings – and if you stick with the same team for more than one mission, their stats will start to improve. I ask Rockstar if you'll be able to double cross these guys when a heist is over; no one seems sure right now, but that would add a certain frisson to the operations.Blitz PlayRockstar shows off one of the smaller robbery tasks named Blitz Play – it's the one with the three leads in boiler suits and masks. The trio has been employed by the FIB – the in-game take on the FBI – to hijack a security truck filled with valuable bonds. Michael mans a garbage van on the route of the target, while Franklin is in that pick-up truck down a side valley. As the security vehicle approaches, Michael has to block the road, then Franklin drives up at great speed, smashing into the Gruppe 6 truck and knocking it onto its side. In most missions, players can choose to stick with one character or swap between them; at some points, control will be automatically swapped, but often its up to you.Michael jabs a block of C4 onto the doors, blasts them open and collects the stash. But suddenly there's a problem; the driver has tripped the alarm and Trevor spots a group of squad cars racing in. It's time for a Grand Theft Auto shoot-out. The sequence, as you'd expect, is blistering stuff; bullets fly, cars skid into the scene and go up in flames; Trevor takes out a police helicopter with an RPG. The health system has been tweaked – it will now regenerate up to 50% but after that you'll need pick-ups – an interesting hybrid.Combat mechanicsGTA 5: Franklin wields a helicopter gun. Photograph: Rockstar GamesThe combat system has apparently been entirely reworked, taking elements of the Max Payne 3 mechanics. There's now a "combat jog" to sprint with the gun, and a roll to get quickly into cover – which is apparently smoother to get out of now. There are also various targeting systems to choose from, ranging from total free-aim to a hybrid lock-on option, which gives players freedom to move the reticule away from automatically selected targets. We're also promised the ability to 'run and gun' while keeping complete control over the reticule; and now the camera pulls way back in the over-the-shoulder shooting view to give a wider field of vision. It's hard to judge without wrestling the controller from the Rockstar rep, but the promise is that the shoot-out mechanics are more rigid and reliable this time round.Eventually the team escapes in the pick-up. The wanted system works like previous games – there's a search radius, and once you get out of it, your heat diminishes. However, it's also possible to hide from pursuers and as long as you're out of their direct search beacons, the wanted status drops. Michael drives the truck to an underpass where a getaway car awaits – but this isn't an automatic prop: the player will have had to scope out a decent switchover location themselves, planting a car there in preparation, as well as scoring those masks and boiler suits. It's all part of the build up. In the major heists this is more elaborate and will also involve building a plan of attack – do you score a bunch of assault rifles for a full-on invasion, or grab smoke grenades for a stealthy approach?Rockstar wants to get across several facets of the game at this point. It's about the scale and variety of the world, with its financial areas, forests, deserts, vineyards and villages – all explorable from the outset. It is about the lead characters, who all have their own lives, friends and business contacts. The development team has apparently been watching a lot of modern TV, noticing how major shows such as The Wire and Breaking Bad have large ensemble casts and intertwined plotlines; this is more of an influence than movies now.And apparently, we'll learn the back stories of these three men as we go, often seeing events from more than one perspective. "Trevor is more about id, about desire," said Dan Houser, when I met him forour first preview of this gamein October. "Michael is more about, 'OK, where are we going and how are we going to get out of this?' He's more reasoned and thoughtful but with many compromised sides to him. Trevor may be simultaneously, less hypercritical and more appalling..."But very quickly it became clear to us, it's not who is better or worse; it's about which of these two awful but charming men is more interesting..."Multiplayer mysteryWhat we don't know about is multiplayer. The publisher is promising something very special, very different – but we're likely to see some similarities with GTA IV and Max Payne, with narrative and sandbox elements combining. Interestingly, when you bring up the character selection wheel in the bottom right corner of the screen, there's an icon for each of the lead characters, but also a fourth for multiplayer – so does that mean we'll be able to slip seamlessly from campaigns into competitive or co-op tasks? Will there be some interplay between the modes, as we have seen in titles like Dark Souls?Rockstar isn't saying. Right now, it's just showing us this vast exhilarating world, filled with procedural quests, strange characters, twisted relationships, and lots and lots of crime. There are more vehicles than any other GTA game, and more weapons. Everything is customisable, from your car to your clothes.  It is a world where government agencies are as crooked as the thugs on street corners, and where the facade of fame and fortune is starting to flake away.It's all so downbeat and grubbily fascinating, but the big test now is, how will the systems work and feel? How free are we and how compelling are these damaged men? For some, Niko Bellic was too much of a troubled soul, and his adventures in Liberty City too mired in the processes of alienation and failure. Seeing Michael going batshit on the golf course, or Trevor wandering Vespucci Beach in his pants, or Franklin leaping from a chopper just for the hell of it hints at a whole different kind of experience – something funnier and more unhinged.GTA 5: there's no escape from Los Santos. Photograph: Rockstar GamesBut I love the fact that somehow, all of the characters are victims of this crazy city of Los Santos; a depiction of LA that goes far deeper than geography. "LA is totally made up," say Houser during my interview last year. "It should be desert scrub; it should all be cliffs and hills, but the hills have been smoothed off and the cliffs have been removed and they've made it wet with water from Canada."All cities are artificial to some extent, but LA isn't set on top of its environment, itchangedit. It's as fake as a game world. It's lunacy. And it works well for GTA. Being simultaneously involved in the production of LA Noire and GTA V was interesting because the place changed so much in that time. It's a fascinating city to look at and engage with. It lets you be free of your past. When people are in New York, they continue to have pretty strong roots in Europe; by the time they get to LA they drop that - they love America. LA is about the love of America."Is GTA V about that? Or is it about games, and how they represent cities and people and criminals? Whatever, it looks like a hell of a lot of fun; just classic GTAfun. Los Santos is the city at the end of Grand Theft Auto's America: there is no escape. It is going to make us do bad things. And we are going to enjoy them.
It's Friday.
I have spent several hours Googling the transfer of DOS files. I use an IBM laptop running DOS for all my relational databases, and my backups are on dozens of floppies. It would be much faster and more convenient to use the USB port but, of course, DOS does not support USB. Or would it be simpler to plug the hard drive into my desktop and read the files that way?Roger FuneauxPeople usually have this problem when they are trying to rescue data files from an old computer, and old PCs often have hardware limitations. Your laptop presumably started out running Windows XP, so there are probably several ways to get at your DOS files, depending on its drives and input/output ports.You could, as you suggest, remove the hard drive and plug it into your desktop PC, possibly via a cheap external hard drive enclosure. But if it means unscrewing lots of tiny screws, it's not something I'd want to do every week, and certainly not every day.What I would have done is partition the hard drive so that the laptop could dual boot into either DOS or Microsoft Windows. Assuming your laptop still has a Windows sticker with aCOA(certificate of authenticity) number, you could create a secondary partition and install Windows alongside the DOS on your primary partition. You could still run your relational databases on DOS.However, you could use a boot manager to run Windows when you wanted to backup your files to an external USB hard drive.Live Linux CD or USBOtherwise, does your IBM laptop have a CD-Rom or DVD drive? If so, the simplest approach would be to boot from a Live Linux disc. This should recognise your old hardware, including the USB ports. Again, this would allow you to copy your files to an external hard drive.It doesn't much matter which version of Linux you use. Historically, we all usedKnoppix, because this was the first Live Linux CD to be widely circulated.Puppy Linuxis an alternative for systems that are short of memory.However, I've given up on the numerous versions of Puppy and just use Ubuntu. In my experience, it's much better at recognising and installing hardware, and it doesn't accidentally lose either the trackpad or the keyboard or the Wi-Fi connection or whatever the next time you boot it.Of course, if your laptop doesn't have an optical drive, you can use your desktop PC to create a bootable version of Linux on a USB memory stick instead. Lots of websites have instructions, but Ubuntu'sHow to create a bootable USB stick on Windowsis a good place to start.DOS does USBYou mention that you spent "several hours Googling the transfer of DOS files", and I wonder if you tried searching for USB drivers for DOS.There are some. Georg Potthast sellsDOSUSBdevice drivers that support USB peripherals including, now, USB 3.0. DOSUSB is a little pricey at £71.65 including VAT, but it may well be justifiable as a business purchase.There's also Panasonic's well known but oldUSBASPI V2.20 MS-DOS Driver, which you can download free from HDD Guru.(ThePanasonic websiteno longer finds any USBASPI drivers.)Using USBASPI and similar drivers involves editing the config.sys file to set device=himem.sys before loading the driver into high memory with devicehigh=USBASPI.SYS and so on. Bootdisk.com has an excellent page onDOS USB Driverswith example configs, links to drivers, and various other suggestions.Use a cableGoing back to the days before Microsoft Windows 3.0 changed the world, I had other ways to move DOS files between machines. The first was to use a dial-up modem and an FTP (file transfer protocol) program, and this should still work. You probably have an old USB Robotics or similar modem hidden away somewhere, and it should still work, but this is not so much a recommendation, more a last resort.My preferred method was to use Traveling Software's wonderful LapLink program. This came with both serial and parallel cables in the box, along with a couple of floppy disks and manuals. The software worked much like an FTP program, only the connection was made via one of the short cables provided.If you have two PCs with serial ports and a null modem cable, you could also transfer the files using the freeFile Mavensoftware instead of LapLink. If your desktop PC does not have a serial port, maybe you could try aUSB to serial adapter.Another alternative is to use a LapLink or null modem cable with MS DOS's INTERLNK.EXE and INTERSVR.EXE files. PCXT has astep-by-step guide.Moving on …Finally, have you explored the idea of upgrading to a more modern operating system running a free version of something like MySQL or Microsoft's free SQL Express? I recall that some companies spent most of the 1990s screaming about the pain of moving from DOS to Windows, and how their essential applications only ran under DOS, but that seemed to stop when Windows 2000 came out. The NTVDM virtual DOS machine in Windows NT 4.0 and later 32-bit versions no doubt helped, but the world has moved on since 1996.Many of the people who really did have a good use for DOS – and there are some – moved toFreeDOS, which is an open source (GPL) clone of MS-DOS andstill being actively developed.But in general, I don't see the point of being a late adopter. You have to move on eventually, so procrastination just means you miss out on the good stuff while storing up pain for the future.
Want to show Google that you don't approve of itstax-avoidance tactics? From its humble beginnings as a project at Stanford University, the company has grown into one which has become almost unavoidable online – and in some cases offline, as it also owns the loss-making Motorola Mobility mobile phone maker.So how do you go about avoiding Google?SearchThis is the big one, of course. Most people in Europe who are online use Google every day at some point; it has more than 90% of the search market (notably because it offers multilingual support). The adverts that appear around Google searches and on other pages generate about 95% of Google's entire revenues. So if you avoid those, then you are – in your own small way – striking a blow against tax avoidance.What are the alternatives? Once you start trying them, my experience is that search is actually more of a commodity than you might think.DuckDuckGo.comoffers (in my experience) search results that are just as good as Google's, and often less full of spam. I've personally used it as my principal search engine for more than a year, initially as an experiment and then simply because it was effective. It's ethical - it's too small a company yet to have gone for any tax avoidance methods that I'm aware of - and doesn't try to track you online.Microsoft'sBingis reckoned by some to be almost as good as Google, though it frequently doesn't do as well in blind tests. Note that Microsoft, like Google, seems to use clever accounting to minimise its tax bill, so if you're avoiding Google for that reason, you might want to ponder that one.Blekkois an up-and-coming search engine which offers a Google-like simplicity but also allows you to search by various categories (you add a category after your search - say "Lance Armstrong /tech"  and it will search only within a subcategory of results.Wolframalphais less of a generalised search engine, and more of an academic reference system, but it is very effective for historical data (such as stock prices) – which you might have found before with Google's "custom search" tools.Remember, the important thing - once you've found an alternative search engine you like – is tochange the settings in your browser so that your new search engine is the default. The way to do that should be through the "Settings" or "Preferences" in your browser. (ForInternet Explorer;Firefox.)BrowserGoogle's Chrome is one of the most-used browsers in the world. Sorry – it's ruled out if you're going to boycott Google. Firefox and Internet Explorer are very good alternatives. Don't forget to change the default search engine; Firefox's use of Google as its default is part of a billion-dollar deal: after an earlier deal expired in 2011, Microsoft bid to be the default - pushing up the price dramatically. The Mozilla Foundation (which controls Firefox) gets the money; Google gets the eyeball.VideoYouTube is gigantic - no question about it. Would people in the west have heard of Gangnam Style and Psy without it?But it's not the only fish in the video sea.Vimeooffers a broad range of content, often from professional videographers, and it is presented in a way that looks fabulous - its HD quality really comes across on a good screen.Flickr Videois the Yahoo subsidiary's short video site. With Marissa Mayer in charge, Yahoo is heading upwards. Might Flickr Video be the way forward?If you're just feeling like watching stuff,Yahoo Screenoffers all sorts of professional content - mostly from US news channels.On smartphones, there's Twitter's ownVine– which doesn't have a "desktop" web presence, but has to be experienced through the mobile app. Videos are limited to six seconds, which means you'll never got bored.MapsGoogle is good at maps; it's been working on them for years. The question of which map system you use as an alternative depends on whether you're using a desktop or mobile; if the latter, which platform.For desktop, there are many choices. But if ethics is top, Nokia – the Finnish mobile company - might be your preference. It doesn't resort to any tax tricks that we're aware of, and makes strenuous efforts to be green in everything it does.Here mapsHere Maps are Nokia's branded maps. Viewed on a desktop, they look very like Ordnance Survey; it's less brash and bright than Google's colouring. There's also an entertaining 3D view version which has many world cities which you can swoop and zoom around. It also offers directions, local products, and so on.For smartphones, you can download different mapping apps. If you're using an iPhone 4 or newer, then upgrading to iOS 6 (which comes preinstalled in phones sold since September) means Apple's maps are the default – not Google's. You can download other mapping apps, including Nokia's.On an Android smartphone, you can't delete Google's Maps app, and Nokia's Here app – which is available for the iPhone – doesn't seem to be in the Play Store. But you can use Here.com in the Android browser.SmartphonesIf you're serious about ethics here, then your next smartphone can't be an Android one - those use Google's software (some of it written here in the UK, despite Google's protestations that the staff here aren't specialists). That rules out brands such as Samsung and HTC. Arguably, as Apple also uses complex tax arrangements, you shouldn't consider an iPhone either.Buying a Motorola phone won't help (even though it makes a loss) because Google writes off the losses on Motorola against its tax bill in the US - so you'd actually be helping reduce its tax payments.That only leaves a BlackBerry phone or Nokia Lumia as your choices. The Lumia uses Microsoft's Windows Phone software; we're not aware of what tax reporting BlacKberry does. You could always toss a coin to make your choice.EmailGoogle's Gmail service, launched in 2004, has grown to become one of the world's largest such services, with around 450 million users. No surprise, given that it offers multiple gigabytes of free storage and easy searching. However, those aren't unique selling points any more. And some find its (machine-generated) advertising unsettling.AlternativesMicrosoft (again) offersOutlook.com, which is its remodelled Hotmail, which offers 7GB of free storage on Microsoft's SkyDrive system.Fastmail.fmis paid-for email - costing about £3 per year – which has no advertising and very good spam protection.Shared documentsIf you have a Gmail account, then you also have access to Google Drive, which offers document storage - and the potential for multiple people to edit documents or spreadsheets simultaneously in real time.AlternativesIt turns out that Google is far from alone in offering this. There's alist on Wikipediaof collaborative real-time text-editing software with 13 desktop applications and 27 web-based ones. You can probably find one that will do the same job as Google Docs out of those.BloggingIf you use Blogspot (aka Blogger), which is Google-owned, you'll have to look somewhere else.AlternativesTumblrlets you set up blogs for free, and is one of the fastest-growing networks anywhere. It's US-based, but not yet generating enough revenue to interest the UK tax authorities; in fact it's unclear whether it generates any revenue here at all.Social networkingGoogle+ claims to have 500 million "registered" users, of whom Google says 235 million are active in a given month. If you're one of those 235 million, then you'll have to find somewhere else to go. (If you're one of the non-active 265 million, you probably won't notice the absence.)This is slightly more tricky, from an ethics and tax standpoint, than it seems. Twitter and Facebook both seem to be setting up the same sort of revenue-routing through Ireland that has UK taxation experts fuming.But there is the Twitter-like app.net, which is a paid-for ad-free social network based in the US, which many think feels like an early version of Twitter.As for the bigger social network experience - well, there's alwaysMySpace. News Corporation sold it a couple of years ago.Do you have more suggestions for alternative services in search, video, email or others? Let us know in the comments.
The debate over whether apps stimulate or stymie children's creativity rumbles on, with strong opinions on both sides.What's clear is that some of the biggest children's entertainment providers are keen for their apps to become more than just passive experiences: they want children to be creating stories, not just reading or watching them.Here are three new examples of this trend, all released within the last week: Toontastic Jr. Shrek, Elmo the Musical – Storyteller and Toy Story: Story Theater, for DreamWorks Animation, Sesame Street and Disney respectively.Toontastic Jr. Shrekis the work of a startup called Launchpad Toys, and represents the first time it has worked with a big brand, following on from the Toontastic: All Access and Toontastic Jr. Pirates apps it released in 2012.The apps all involve children choosing scenery, characters and items, then animating them while recording their own voice telling a story. The results can then be shared with friends and family by their parents.The new Shrek app also includes a feature called StoryShare for remote collaboration. The idea being that children can co-create stories over the internet with cousins, grandparents or anyone else approved by their parents (i.e. not strangers).Elmo the Musical – Storytellerdoes a similar thing for a new segment on Sesame Street's TV show, getting children to choose an outfit for Elmo, create scenes with characters and objects, record their voices telling a story, then watch the whole thing back.Sesame Street makes a point of suggesting parents should be involved in this process, rather than seeing the app as purely a babysitting tool. A tips section offers advice on "helping your child create imaginative stories", while parents are also put in control of sending the stories to friends and family.Finally,Toy Story: Story Theateris the third app of its kind from Disney, following previous releases for Sofia the First and its Disney Princesses.The pattern should be familiar by now: children choose a setting, characters, props and actions, then record their own voice narration to describe what's happening. Aimed (like the others) at 3-7 year-old children, it too provides an in-app guide for parents and carers suggesting "offline activities to extend the learning".Toontastic Jr. Shrek encourages children to shareThe theory behind all these apps – and others that went before like book publisher Collins'series of Big Cat apps– is to help children explore the basics of story structure, encourage imaginative play, and increasingly to collaborate with friends or family in the process.This sounds good, especially as it complements rather than replaces what children are learning at school, and the knowledge they're soaking up from reading (or being read) stories with their parents.But it's making me think again about digital haves and have-nots. The three apps mentioned above are all iOS-only for now, so children using their parents' Android or Windows 8 devices are out of luck – not to mention kids who don't have access to apps at all.Technology as a tool for creating stories as well as reading them is a positive thing, and teaming it with well-loved characters like Shrek, Elmo and the Toy Story gang has plenty of potential.But it should also stimulate more discussion about how to make these apps accessible from a wider range of devices – HTML5 may well have an important role to play here – and how to get more of those devices into the hands of more children, whether at home or at school.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Next Xbox named Fusion? | Game Development | News by DevelopA possible name for the new Xbox is currently doing the rounds online.Fusible reports that Microsoft has been named as the owner of a host of URLs relating to the Xbox Fusion brand.As well as owning the XboxFusion.com address it also claims ownership of a host of other variations including but not limited to XboxFusion.co.uk, XboxFusion.info and XboxFusion.biz.This could also be some new multimedia service for the next Xbox perhaps?Is Illumiroom the Next Xbox's secret weapon? | MCVBen Parfitt:Microsoft's Illumiroom technology could be one of the platform holder's key drivers behind its new Xbox.As MCV reported in January following the tech's unveiling at CES, Illumiroom uses a system that harks back to the old Philips amBX tech, but evolves it far beyond anything seen before. A projector is used to extend visual cues from the game beyond the edges of the TV display to the walls of the room in which the user is playing.It was at the time pitched as a "proof of concept" system The Verge reports that Illumiroom is now being described by Microsoft as "a next-generation gaming console with a projector that sits on your coffee table and surrounds your television with projected light".Here's a video of the CES demo:You can find out more about the technology on theMicrosoft Research site.The Psychology of The Uncanny Valley | GamesIndustry InternationalSubstantial research has shown that the mugs of human characters matter the most. We have evolved to pay special attention to the faces of other people as a way to do everything from empathise with them, communicate with them, and even look for signs of disease. So it shouldn't be surprising that faces are one of the most important things determining whether or not a video game character will live in the uncanny valley.This is an interesting analysis of the 'uncanny valley' phenomenon, in which depictions of human figures can become more frightening as they get closer to photo-realism. It's been an issue with 'realistic' games like Heavy Rain, and it's going to be a very important consideration in the next generation.LEGO Breaking Bad concept video is pure genius | VG247An amusing consideration of what a Lego Breaking Bad game may look like.Before you get too excited, it's not happeneing. This is a parody video by animator,Brian Anderson.I Am Stereoblind, But the 3DS Lets Me See the World as Others See It | KotakuThis is a really lovely story from Rare designer George Kokoris who is stereoblind ("a blanket term for any condition that prevents a person from perceiving depth using binocular vision") but has been able to experience the stereoscopic effect offered by the 3DS.After playing with the depth slider off for a few minutes, I slid it up out of sheer curiosity and saw something I had never seen in my life: a third dimension. This is how other people see the world all the time.Not only was I "seeing into the screen" the way so many others feel when playing a 3DS for the first time, I was seeing in a direction that had previously been literally invisible to me.It's difficult to come up with a metaphor. Maybe it's what Gomez saw the first time he spun the world in Fez. Maybe you can remember the first time you lay on the grass at night, looked up at the stars, and realized you weren't looking up at all, because there is no "up", and you were suddenly aware of being attached to the surface of a tiny sphere rolling through a vast emptiness. Or perhaps you once looked at an Escher woodcut long enough for the positive and negative space to switch places. I suppose any analogy would be imperfect; I was seeing a new piece of everyday reality.Wonderful.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
The Facebook website has lost 10 million visitors in the US and seen no growth in monthly visitors in the UK over the past year, according to data from market research firm Nielsen.Research shows that the number of unique visitors to the Facebook website from computers, smartphones and tablets has fallen from 153m in March 2012 to 142m in March this year, having peaked at 158m last August.The news came as Facebook announced its latest quarterly results, saying it had 1.11 billion monthly active users around the world, up 23% from a year ago. Mobile monthly active users were 751 million, up 54%. But much of the growth is coming from poorer nations, where advertising revenues are lower.Created nine years ago as a website, Facebook is now competing with rival social networks such as messaging service WhatsApp, which were invented as applications for the smartphone age. While the Facebook app is increasingly replacing its website as its members' favourite way of checking in, the surge in mobile users may not be enough to offset falls in PC visits.Facebook's UK numbers. Source: NielsenIn the UK, visitors peaked at 28 million in October before declining to 26 million in March according to Nielsen data on home and work users. As of March, the Facebook website had no more UK visitors than it did a year ago, suggesting that its expansion has plateaued.A global market research firm, Nielsen collects its data in two ways: it places "tags" on Facebook's servers, with the company's permission, which count the number of browsers, and it monitors the browser activity of consumers in each country.In the UK, the firm has a 40,000-strong panel that gives a representative sample of the population according to demographic, income, age and location.The data counts the number of individual browsers on the Facebook website using any type of device, but does not include the numbers of people using the Facebook app. Nielsen said an app user would have to access the full website only once a month to register in its numbers.The data underlines trends seen elsewhere. On Sunday,the Guardian reportedthat Socialbakers, which produces Facebook traffic estimates for advertisers, had recorded falls in monthly visits in the US and Europe. The company's chief executive, Jan Rezab, cautioned against using Socialbakers figuresin a blog on Monday, saying they were "rough estimates and cannot be used to determine Facebook traffic". However, Nielsen stands by its numbers, which paint a similar picture. Facebook declined to comment.But the company has said that in developed markets, the number of users accessing from personal computers is falling, while traffic from mobile devices is surging. By Christmas, more than half its visitors – 680 million a month – were using mobile devices. Nearly a quarter of Facebook advertising revenue is generated by the small screen.Mobile visitors are more valuable to Facebook. Founder Mark Zuckerberg told investors last year: "Someone who uses only our desktop product has only a 40% likelihood of using Facebook on a given day. But someone who uses mobile has a 70% likelihood of using Facebook on a given day. This stat is surprising to many people and very good news for our opportunity on mobile."Facebook made $219m in the first three months of the year, compared to $205m in the year-ago period. Revenues in the first quarter totaled $1.46bn, versus $1.06bn in the year-ago period. Mobile ads accounted for 30% of total advertising revenues in the first quarter, up from 23% in the fourth quarter of 2012.• This article was amended on 3 May 2013. The original version referred to Facebook users where visitors to the Facebook website was meant, and referred to Nielsen cross-checking "by surveying consumers in each country", when in fact it monitors browser activity rather than surveying consumers. It also said Nielsen "cannot count the numbers of people using the Facebook app", where what it should have said is that the data referred to does not include the numbers using the app.
First Tesco accidentallyannounced it, then a leaked Gamestop postershowedit, but now it's official. Call of Duty: Ghosts is the next title in the multimillion-selling shooter series, and it will be out on 5 November on  Xbox 360, PS3 and PC.However, the exciting revelation for fans is that the game will feature an all-new engine, developed specifically with the next-generation consoles in mind. Activision has confirmed that Ghosts will be brought to the forthcoming PlayStation and Xbox machines, but hasn't given a date. Neither Sony nor Microsoft has revealed definite launch plans for their respective platforms.According to the press release sent out on Wednesday evening, Ghosts will boast, "a riveting all-new gameplay experience built on an entirely new story, setting and cast of characters, all powered by a new, next generation Call of Duty engine that redefines the series for the next generation." It will be the first major re-build for the engine in several years. A teaser has been released, giving nothing away, apart from the use of a ghost mask, which will be familiar to fans – a British spec ops solder codenamed Ghost appeared in Modern Warfare 2 and wore a similar piece of head gear.Activision has added to itsGhosts teaser sitewith aFacebook page, but is clearly keeping plenty of secrets. However, Asda has already opened pre-orders for the title; its press releasequotes Digital Spy, and states, "Call of Duty: Ghosts will allegedly take place in the future, but utilise current technology and weapons in line with a 'major plot event'. The single-player campaign is said to include more destructible environments, with multiplayer maps featuring interactive areas and traps."The game is in development at Infinity Ward, the studio responsible for creating the Call of Duty series and arguably its best titles – the Modern Warfare trilogy. The futuristic setting of Ghosts suggests the team may have been at least partially inspired by last year's Call of Duty: Black Ops 2, which takes place in 2025, with America under cyber-attack from a crazed terrorist. However, the Modern Warfare titles were always set slightly in the future. Nothing else is known about the Ghosts storyline, although Activision will be showing footage at Microsoft's next generation Xbox event on 21 May."Everyone was expecting us to make Modern Warfare 4, which would have been the safe thing to do. But we're not resting on our laurels," said Mark Rubin, executive producer of Infinity Ward.  "We saw the console transition as the perfect opportunity to start a new chapter for Call of Duty. So we're building a new sub-brand, a new engine, and a lot of new ideas and experiences for our players. We can't wait to share them with our community."Call of Duty is the most successful franchise in gaming history. The last instalment made over $1bn within 15 days, and since the release of the first title in 2003, the series has sold over 100m copies. However, critical reactions to the last title were more muted and sales dropped slightly after the record-breaking success of the first Black Ops title in 2010. The next generation of console technology has come at an opportune moment for the series, then, allowing the possibility – if not yet quite the guarantee – of a major re-invention.Correction: this article was corrected on 3 May 2013 to clarify that Asda was quoting Digital Spy in its description of the game.
Please note: we're experimenting with later launch times for this post - between 0630 BST and 0830 BST. We'll settle it again on a new time (or the same time) after a week or so.A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThese 7 Bitcoin mining rigs show how far people will go for virtual money &gt;&gt; DailyDotIn a mad quest to amass some dicey digital money, some people are building computer rigs so ridiculous they could literally burn a house down."Would you like to see my Bitcoin mining rig?" is the geek version of "do you want to see my etchings?" (Current Bitcoin exchange rate: $116.)Google Now draining iPhone battery &gt;&gt; PC Pro blogBarry Collins:The impact on battery life is far from minimal, if my experience, and that of many others, is anything to go by. On a two-hour journey to work this morning, my iPhone 4S battery dropped from 100% to only 65% by the time I reached work, whereas normally it would have between 80% to 85% remaining. It's also much warmer than normal.Users on theMacRumors forumsare also reporting excessive drain.  "Just installed it and my iPhone 4 got nice and warm. The location services were on full time, even when I stopped the app! I had to delete it to get the GPS to stop."The Pirate Bay moves to .sx as prosecutor files motion to seize domains &gt;&gt; TorrentFreakSwedish authorities have filed a motion at the District Court of Stockholm on behalf of the entertainment industries, demanding the seizure of two Pirate Bay domain names. In addition to the Swedish-based .se domain the motion also includes the new Icelandic .is TLD. In a rapid response, The Pirate Bay has just switched to a fresh domain, ThePirateBay.sx, registered in the northeastern Caribbean island of Sint Maarten.Bet you didn't know where .sx was before that. (Thanks @IvanIvanovich for the link.)Andreessen: Android poised to explode in emerging markets | Android CentralChris Umiastowski:Some might say that Google (and Android), are playing a big factor in catching these developing markets up to where they should be. I think that's true.  And I also think it will be very profitable for Google to do this. Its services drive revenue, and Google is pretty much set to dominate in emerging markets.Think of how tough this must be for Microsoft. When Nokia partnered with the Redmond giant, they HAD to know Symbian was going to disappear at the low end of the market within a few years. They had a chance to push Windows into the low end quickly, to avoid this brutal ending.  But they didn't do it. They entered the race at the top of the market, and things aren't going well.Sadly for Microsoft, I think we're now seeing a story unfold where Google wins the low end, Google and Apple are winning the top end, and everyone else is fighting for a relevance, or ownership of a niche segment of the market.(Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)BlackBerry: THE TRUTH about that 5.1% UK market figure &gt;&gt; The RegisterBlackBerry has rebutted a claim that its UK smartphone market share was just 5.1% during the first three months of 2013.It says independent sales figures show it notched up 10% of the market during that period.Kantar ComTech Worldpanel says 5.1%, BlackBerry says GfK says 10% (but won't release the GfK numbers). Going to be hard to pull out of the results, because BlackBerry's quarters don't match calendar quarters.The troubled life of Patent No. 6,456,841 &gt;&gt; IEEE SpectrumTam Herbert:[in 2011] when Google sought to buy Nortel Networks Corp.'s 6000-plus mobile-telecom patents, a consortium of Apple, EMC, Ericsson, Microsoft, Research In Motion, and Sony paid $4.5bn to keep that intellectual property out of Google's hands.Against that litigious backdrop, on 4 March 2011, Apple quietly acquired Icon and 11 other Mitsubishi patents. (Presumably, Apple either paid the Japanese company for the portfolio or did an in‑kind exchange of IP, but neither firm would comment.)Just five months later, Apple transferred those dozen patents to an entity called Cliff Island, a shell company created by Digitude Innovations. Headquartered in Alexandria, Va., Digitude describes itself as a patent acquisition and licensing company.Dirty deeds done dirt cheap?China becomes leading PC market in 2012, says IHS &gt;&gt; DigitimesChina rose to the top of the PC market for the first time ever on an annual basis in 2012, relegating the US to second place with a lead of more than three million units, according to IHS iSuppli.PC shipments in 2012 to China amounted to 69m units, exceeding the 66m total reached by the US. Only a year earlier in 2011, the US was the leading global destination for PCs.Beyond its large size, China's PC market exhibits distinct characteristics that set it apart from the computer trade elsewhere, possessing a vast untapped rural market and unique consumer-purchasing patterns. While desktop shipments lagged notebooks around the world, the two PC segments were on par in China in 2012, with an even 50%-50% split."The equal share of shipments for desktops and notebooks in China is unusual, since consumers in most regions today tend to prefer more agile mobile PCs, rather than the bulky, stationary desktops," said Peter Lin, senior analyst for compute platforms at IHS. "The relatively large percentage of desktop shipments in China is due to huge demand in the country's rural areas, which account for a major segment of the country's 1.34bn citizens. These consumers tend to prefer the desktop form factor."Total smartphone sales in China in 2012: over 210m.Tennis player tweets out love for Samsung Galaxy S4... from his iPhone &gt;&gt; TUAWOopsie, David Ferrer. Looking forward to hearing that his Twitter was "hacked".Who has your back? 2013 &gt;&gt; Electronic Frontier FoundationCompares a large number of (US) companies against various privacy and rights categories - eg do they require a warrant for consent; tell users about government data requests; publish transparency reports; and so on.MySpace (who?) is bottom, AT&amp;T, Apple and Yahoo next worst (1/6). Only Twitter and Sonic.net get 6/6. If you're wondering, Sonic.net is an ISP.The serious flaw with Win 8 and Metro &gt;&gt; John C. DvorakLet me pose a simple question: When you look at your desktop screen, how do you find the program you are looking for? You look for distinctive icons using your human ability to recognize patterns. It's what we do best. You ignore the words beneath the icon. For example, you scan your desktop for a red flat cat, locate it, and click, knowing the program is Irfanview. We are so good at this that we can identify an upside down icon.How is it a step forward to create a tile inscribed with the name of the program? An old alphabetized DOS listing is easier to navigate than a wall of tiles, on which nothing is immediately familiar. Our innate pattern recognition is short-circuited by similar tiles. You have to read text rather than react to an iconic image. And while colored tiles help a little, it's still problematic.For once, Dvorak actually makes a good point - though the tiles also contain icons, but being reversed (white on colour) they're not as easy to recognise as a non-reversed colour. It's the same as trying to read white text on coloured background - it's slower than black on a lighter colour. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
Apple saved as much as $9bn (£5.8bn) when it decided to issue $17bn in debt rather than use its foreign cash reserves to pay money back to shareholders, accountancy experts have calculated.The technology firm announced its first bond issue in almost two decades on Tuesday, a week after chief executive Tim Cook pledged to pay a further $55bn back to disgruntled shareholders. Apple's shares have fallen since hitting record highs last year and the company is planning to buy back $100bn in shares over the next two years.Wednesday's announcement comes after Apple revealed it has $145bn in cash on its books, $102bn held in foreign bank accounts. The company may be paying between 3.2% or less tax on those funds, according to assistant professor Jennifer Blouin at University of Pennsylvania's Wharton business school.If the company was to move that cash back into the US, then it would be subject to a 35% tax rate. In order to raise $17bn, the company would need to repatriate $26bn from overseas before paying $9bn in tax. "They would face a very substantial tax liability whichever way you look at it," said Blouin.She calculates that Apple's complex overseas taxes may be even less than her "conservative" 3.2% estimate for some of its huge cash pile. "Apple has a pool of money it calls 'permanent reinvested earnings' and it has said its anticipated tax rate is 34.16%. So given that the US rate is 35%, that would suggest the foreign rate is less than 1%," she said.Many companies are, like Apple, taking advantage of low interest rates in the US and low taxes abroad to borrow money and pay back investors. Microsoft raised $2.7bn last week, and after Apple's debt offering, the total level of new issues for April will top $100bn, the strongest April for debt sales since 2008.The company and others have been lobbying for tax breaks on bringing cash back into the US. Analysts expect that pressure for change will only increase if and when interest rates start to rise. In the meantime, there seems to be no shortage of tax havens for global corporations."This is a trend that has become more prevalent over the decade. These companies have intangible assets. It's not like they are moving factories. The what-makes-Apple-Apple, the ingenuity, the marketing, the money that comes from that, can be situated anywhere," said Blouin.
Dozens of executives at Sony have agreed to forgo bonuses worth an estimated ¥1bn (£6.6m) after failing to return the firm's ailing consumer electronics division to profit.The decision means the 40 executives will face pay cuts of up to 40%. While executives in the electronics division gave up their bonuses last year, this is the first time that senior management in the group, including chief executive Kazuo Hirai, have had to atone financially for the firm's poor performance in a key market.In the latest of a series of drastic cost-cutting measures, Sony recently cut 10,000 jobs in Japan and overseas – about 6% of its workforce – and halved TV production targets. It also sold off the group's headquarters in New York for more than $1bn (£642m) and its Sony City Osaki premises in Tokyo.The salary reductions are an embarrassment for Hirai, who last year promised to bring the firm's electronics division back into profit. But the division has stayed in the red amid slumping sales of its PCs, games consoles and flat-screen TVs. Faced with increasing competition from rivals in South Korea and Taiwan, Sony's TV sales failed to turn a profit last year for a ninth consecutive year.Hirai and his predecessor, Sir Howard Stringer, gave up their bonuses in 2011 and agreed to base salary cuts after the company had sustained record net losses the previous year of ¥457bn. Despite its consumer electronics woes, Sony said it expects to show a net profit of ¥40bn for 2012, its first profit for five years and double its February forecast. The group's performance has improved in recent months amid a sharp fall in the value of the yen and a rise in the Japanese stock market.
Google Glass, the wearable computer being developed by the search giant, might be a threat to its owners' privacy because it has no PIN or authentication system, hackers have discovered.Jay Freeman, a Santa Barbara-based programmer who specialises in cracking smartphone security for both iPhone and Android devices, discovered that Glass has a "root" capability which can be enabled by attaching it to a desktop computer and running some commands.That would then give a hacker the ability to take control of the Glass's output – meaning a hacker could monitor everything the owner was doing from a smartphone in their pocket."Once the attacker has root on your Glass, they have much more power than if they had access to your phone or even your computer: they have control over a camera and a microphone that are attached to your head,"explains Freeman in a blogpost. "A bugged Glass doesn't just watch your every move: it watches everything you are looking at (intentionally or furtively) and hears everything you do. The only thing it doesn't know are your thoughts."He points out that "it knows all your passwords, for example, as it can watch you type them. It even manages to monitor your usage of otherwise safe, old-fashioned technology: it watches you enter door codes, it takes pictures of your keys, and it records what you write using a pen and paper. Nothing is safe once your Glass has been hacked." Even if the device shows a red light to show others when its video camera is on, a user probably wouldn't notice it – because the light would be facing away from them.Freeman reckons that about 10 minutes would be enough for a hacker to install a "rooted" version of the software that Glass ships with. "Sadly, due to the way Glass is currently designed, it is particularly susceptible to the kinds of security issues that tend to plague Android devices," he writes."The one saving grace of Android's track record on security is that most of the bugs people find in it cannot be exploited while the device is PIN-code locked. Google's Glass, however, does not have any kind of PIN mechanism: when you turn it on, it is immediately usable."Freeman got hold of one of the demonstration units of Glass, and quickly found that there is a "Debug Mode" which lets it connect to computers over a USB connection. That in turn lets anyone who has access to the device to install their own software if they use certain technical tricks.He recommends that Glass should have a protection system that functions when it is taken off by the owner, such as a biometric – either using patterns in the iris or voice – or a PIN.And for the privacy concerns, both that users have expressed and that Freeman has now opened up, he suggests there would at least be a simple one over worries about the camera: a plastic shield that could slide over the camera. "This makes it clear that 'I'm not recording right now'," he suggests.A Google spokesperson said: "We recognize the importance of building device-specific protections, and we're experimenting with solutions as we work to make Glass more broadly available."Sources who know about Google's thinking on the project say that the "Explorer" program is aimed at developers rather than the average consumer, and that it doesn't access all of a user's account details. There is also a "remote wipe" system in the Explorer system, though it's unclear whether it would work against a hacked device.
