Microsoft is letting people try theNew Xbox Experience(NXE) that existing users will get on November 19, and it seems to have been well received. It's a whole new interface based, like the Wii, on avatars, though you can also use a Quick Launch menu system instead. Engadget says:The look is sophisticated and spacious, with soft gradients, smooth fades, and classy design touches throughout. From a visual standpoint, the NXE is roughly ten million times more pleasant and accessible than the previous version.The new interface also brings new features, including a Netflix video channel that lets you watch streaming movies free (if you're a Gold member with a Netflix subscription), including HD content.InNew Xbox Experience (NXE) Review: It's Pure Improvement, Gizmodo says:Ultimately, it doesn't matter whether or not you like NXE, since we're all going to be forced to update the firmware to connect to Xbox Live. But luckily, NXE is an all-around upgrade from the old 360 OS—which really wasn't so bad in its own right.NXE is faster, prettier and more functional than its predecessor. It brings us avatars and Netflix, full game installs and more robust multiplayer. Truth be told, we could have been shown NXE as the operating system behind the Xbox 720, and life wouldn't have been so bad. Instead, we get it a few years early. And we consider ourselves lucky.Engadget's wrap upsays:Overall we're highly impressed with what Microsoft has done. This isn't just PR-speak or phony praise -- the company has demonstrated a tremendous understanding of the needs of the market and its customers, both with this software update, and the recent price cuts on the low-end Xbox 360 packages. If this is "just the beginning" -- as the team claims it is -- we're going to see some pretty exciting stuff in the future. For now, however, the combo of rock-solid, next-gen game console, multi-tiered entertainment delivery system, and robust social networking engine leaves little to be desired. Let's just hope that developers can live up to the system's potential.Joystiq hasVideo tour: New Xbox Experience Exposed, which provides a bunch of videos to take you through the new system.It's very unusual for a console to get a complete software makeover three years into its career. (I can't remember it happening before.) I can't imagine it would be happening unless Microsoft was planning a big Christmas push to exploit the lower price points it's got from its new chips and Jasper motherboard. Realistically, however, the name of the game now is to be much the best-selling console after Nintendo runs out of stock….
"I've always loved flying," says Stuart Ross, a commercial airline pilot for whom flying a 767 to the Mediterranean and back a couple of times a week just isn't enough of a thrill. "A lot of my colleagues get involved in restoring old fighter planes and things like that," he says, "but I thought, sod it, let's go for something a bit different."So Ross retreated to the bottom of his garden in Horsham, West Sussex, and spent four years and the best part of &pound;100,000 building a rocketbelt - a Buck Rogers-style flying backpack that can shoot the wearer 1,000 feet into the air at 60mph. With testing of this most sought-after of gadgets nearing completion, Ross is preparing to take his rocketbelt on the road.High flyer"It's designed, quite simply, to strap on and fly," he says of the device, which will look pleasingly familiar to sci-fi fans. The rocketbelt consists of a pair of stainless steel fuel tanks, a gas tank, a rocket motor and two downward-facing rocket nozzles. The whole device weighs almost 60kg (130lb) - even without a pilot strapped into it - and is powered by highly volatile 90% pure hydrogen peroxide. Although Ross talks down the obvious dangers involved, he understandably keeps the rocketbelt tethered to a frame during testing. With an earsplitting burst of superheated steam, the contraption lifts Ross gently into the air and, for a few noisy seconds, he is flying. "The adrenalin rush starts three hours before you fly it and finishes when you go to bed," he says.Originally imagined in Amazing Stories comic books and Buster Crabbe film serials, the flying backpack - or jetpack - isthe most desirable and elusive of sci-fi gadgets. Today we carry personal communication devices in our pockets, walk through automatic sliding doors, buy robots to vacuum our carpets, and can even book trips into space - if we have a spare $200,000 (&pound;127,450). But we still can't strap on a jetpack and zoom off to Tesco for our groceries.This isn't for want of trying: inventors have been working on creating real working jetpacks for more than 60 years, with mixed results. An attempt to build a rocket-powered flying backpack was allegedly made by the Nazis towards the end of the second world war, and further attempts were made in the US after Nazi rocket experts were transferred to Alabama as part of Project Paperclip. None got more than a few inches off the ground.The rocketbelt that Ross has based his design on was invented in the 1950s by Bell Aircraft Company engineer Wendell Moore, and then developed into the 1960s for the US army as a proposed method for moving troops around battlefields. However, the device had a fatal flaw: its heavy fuel consumption meant flight times were limited to just 21 seconds - too short for any practical use. The army withdrew its funding, and Bell turned the rocketbelt into a spectacular entertainment attraction.One of the original Bell rocketbelt pilots was Bill Suitor, recruited as a 19-year-old while mowing Wendell Moore's lawn. "It sure beat the hell out of working for a living," says Suitor. Now in his 60s, he tests rocketbelts forThunderbolt Aerosystems, a Californian business that wants to make rocketbelts available "to the masses". Thunderbolt is one of three companies offering to sell rocketbelts to the public for upwards of $100,000. However, like Mexico's TecnologiaAeroespacial Mexicanaand Colorado-basedJetPack International, it has yet to produce evidence of a single sale.Happy landingRoss was inspired by Suitor and has sought advice from him for his own rocketbelt. In preparation for his upcoming untethered test flights, Ross also sought advice from the Civil Aviation Authority, who referred him to a psychiatrist from their medical department. Friends have suggested that the best place for Ross to test his creation might be the car park of a casualty department, but aside from a few hydrogen peroxide blisters and some ruined shoes, he has avoided mishaps.While Ross will soon be taking to the skies, he can't see jetpacks becoming widely available to the public in the foreseeable future. His original plan was to build five rocketbelts and invite novices along to learn how to fly them. He admits, however, that insurance difficulties might scupper that idea. "I guess we'll cross that bridge when we need to go public," he says. For now, Ross plans to fly the rocketbelt at lucrative paid bookings around the world, and says it will be used to promote a "top secret" new product in the run-up to next Christmas. "Hopefully in 2009 we'll be able to take it out on the road," he says. "The rocketbelt will always interest the public and amaze spectators. There really is nothing else like it in the world."• Paul Brown is the author of The Rocketbelt Caper: A True Tale of Invention, Obsession and Murder (rocketbeltcaper.co.uk)
These are exciting times for fans of role-playing games. Fable II raised the bar and Fallout 3, if anything, lifts it higher. It's the perfect game for those who love the depth and immersion that RPGs provide, but have a phobia of orcs, goblins and the like. It is set in a gloriously devastated Washington DC after a nuclear war has driven people into underground vaults. You're born in Vault 101 and set up your character during a clever accelerated childhood. When your scientist father escapes when you hit 20, you follow him. What ensues is state of the art, featuring an incredibly convoluted storyline, with vast numbers of side-missions, great control over character development, amazing visuals and an unusual but effective shooting system. Moral dilemmas abound. For example, the first location you find is Megaton, a rickety shanty town constructed around an unexploded atomic bomb. Should you defuse the bomb or explode it, obliterating Megaton? This is the perfect credit-crunch game, as it contains vast amounts of gameplay and replay value.
It is time for fleeting nostalgia. Twenty-five years ago this month the Guardian introduced a special section devoted to computers, the grandparent of Technology Guardian. We had been discussing the idea for nearly 18 months amid doubts about the viability of such a strange, untested project.When finally approved it was called, in caps, Futures Micro Guardian. Tim Radford, our venerable science guru, and I were launch editors.As we were nearing publication time I realised we ought to have a regular IT columnist. But who? My computer reading in those days was Practical Computing. I rang its editor and asked if he would like to write the first column, and when he said yes, I added that maybe he had better write the following two while he was at it. He was called Jack Schofield.I remember the launch well, not least because the first two articles I wrote revealed two principles I still regularly fail to grasp. The first is: never underestimate the amazing pace of technology; and the second is that the most dazzling technology often fails.In the first issue, I interviewed the information technology minister, Kenneth Baker, about his use of the BBC's pioneering computer. It had what were then dizzy specifications, and it could download teletext and send faxes along a phone line. A Conservative government had commendably embraced the machine as a vehicle for change in schools.When I went to his house, it turned out that Baker hadn't got much of a clue about the machine himself, but fortunately his civil service minder had. But the point is, we all underestimated the technology. The choice then – and it was a difficult choice – was whether to buy the basic version of the Acorn BBC micro with 16K of memory (yes, that's 16,384 bytes) or the more expensive 32K version. Would we ever really need such a large amount of memory? Today, you can get mobile phones with a gigabyte of storage – that's 1,073,741,824 bytes.Back then, we had absolutely no idea that mobile phones were looming in our future, let alone how many people would have them; or that something called the World Wide Web would be grafted onto the internet. As for being able to run your own global TV channel from a mobile phone (worldtv.comin conjunction withqik.com), that was beyond fantasy.By contrast a lot of people, including me, were calling for the almost limitless capacity of fibre-optic threads to be laid to the home, something that has still not happened 25 years on.My article in the second issue was an interview with Cy Endfield, the Hollywood film director who had invented the Microwriter and the AgendA, one of the earliest PDAs, beloved of Douglas Adams. Both used chords, a clever way of entering characters using five keys on the device. Your fingers could mimic all the letters of the alphabet and symbols in a way that was surprisingly easy to learn. I fell in love with it and still have it somewhere. But its mission to displace the all-dominant, though technically inefficient, Qwerty keyboard failed, as have numerous other whizzy bits of technology I have since embraced.But hang on. Maybe the Microwriter could re-emerge as a touch-screen application for the iPhone to displace the dodgy keypad, one of the iPhone's few weaknesses. Anyone out there listening?What of the next 25 years? It is easy where we are part of the way up the curve: virtually all of the world's 6.6 billion inhabitants will have a mobile device of some kind, which will take over most of their entertainment and, maybe, work experiences. The web will get smarter, hospital care revolutionised, high-definition virtual worlds inhabited by practically everyone, and so on. But I have no idea what new device or invention will come about. One hopes it will be in the area of sustainable energy sources.Let me stick my neck out. In 25 years, there will be fibre to the home. There.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Vista off the netI have Virgin's most powerful broadband with a Netgear wireless router. My laptop runs XP and has no problem. My daughter's has Vista and the broadband signal lasts only a short time before the connection fails. Using the Virgin software to fix the connection, the signal is low and unusable, then cuts out againSteve GilbertJS: Networking problems like this are notoriously hard to solve unless you can get a knowledgeable person on the premises, so try to find a local expert. You may be able to find one via the Usenet support group, virginmedia.support.broadband.cable but it's clearly not me. I "solved" my own problems with a Virgin/Netgear Wi-Fi system - it would only work if I kept re-installing Virgin's CD - by discontinuing the service. However, it did work via a Cat5 Ethernet cable, so get your daughter to try that. (I bought a pair of Solwise 85Mbps HomePlugs and used the mains wiring to take the connection to a different room.)Also, Vista's SP1 service pack has cleared up some networking niggles, so it might be worth installing that, too. We've not had any connection problems with two Vista laptops at home, perhaps because we've learned not to install any software supplied by an ISP. In our experience, Vista just works. However, problems have been reported with some routers that have Stateful Packet Inspection in their firewalls, and sometimes a solution is to turn off SPI. There have also been a few problems with Vista's use of IPv6 as the default instead of IPv4. Microsoft has a support document: How to disable certain Internet Protocol version 6 (IPv6) components in Windows Vista (bit.ly/aj0052).Microsoft also offers an Internet Connectivity Evaluation Tool that checks your NAT router to see what it can do, and that might find a problem (bit.ly/aj0053). It's best run using the Windows Firewall and Internet Explorer. The  Windows Connection Wizard will also have a good go at trying to diagnose connection problems.External drive for Mac?I have been trying to find an external hard drive for my Mac and have read too many accounts of models that are not compatible, or which break down too easily. Any suggestions?Peter KingJS: I don't use enough external hard drives to have a view, and by the time a view has been formed, the market has already moved on. The best you can do is search the web using model numbers - preferably the model number of whatever drive is inside the external enclosure.Otherwise, all USB 2.0 storage devices should work with either Mac OS X or Windows, but you can increase your chance of success by buying devices that are specific about their support for Macs, or that offer FireWire as well as USB. Most Macs produced this century have a FireWire port, and relatively few PCs, apart from Sony's.Also, for preference, choose an EHD that has its own power supply, or connect it via a powered hub. Some 2.5in  external drives - especially portable ones have problems drawing enough power from the USB port. Smaller external drives that have 1.8in drives should be fine, but their smaller capacities and lower performance tend to make these less attractive.New life for old Lifebook?I have a Fujitsu-Siemens Lifebook B2130 with a 6GB hard drive. It is groaning under the weight of Windows XP Pro. I would like to install Linux but it does not have an optical drive.Eddie ShinksJS: The Lifebook B2130 only had 64MB of soldered memory, which could be upgraded only to 192MB, and a 400MHz Celeron, so it's surprising that XP Pro runs at all. A current Linux won't be much better, but there are lots of small versions such as Puppy Linux 4.00: there's a list atbengross.com/smallunix.html.At 94MB, Puppy is small enough to download or to copy across from a USB thumbdrive (puppylinux.org). However, the B2130 is not really worth the effort. If you can afford it, buy an Asus Eee PC, Acer Aspire One or similar netbook instead. If you shop around, you can also find good big-screen notebooks for less than &pound;250.Problem magnifiedOccasionally the Magnifier pops up in Windows XP. I have not figured out how I elicit it or how to get rid of it, other than rebooting.William Van der KlootJS: The Windows Magnifier, provided to help those with poor eyesight, is in the Start menu's Accessibility folder, under Accessories. You can also run it by pressing the Windows key plus U. I don't know how you can run it by accident, unless it has been assigned a special key. To close it, right-click inside the magnified bar and select Exit from the drop-down menu. (Golden rule for Windows: always try right-clicking!) Alternatively, look for the Windows Magnifier entry in the Task Bar, click it to open the window, and click Exit.Backchat• Michael Smith wanted to connect his Virgin V+ set-top box to his laptop to save TV programmes. David Wharton says he has done it, "but it's not straightforward. If you have a DV camcorder with a video in AV socket and a FireWire out, you can connect the camera (set to video through) to the V+ box using a Scart-to-AV converter plug. With the camera connected to the computer via FireWire, you can capture the video from the V+ box using any video capture software, even the Movie Maker program bundled with Windows. For less technically adventurous types, a few manufacturers sell dedicated USB2 and FireWire devices for this sort of purpose. Most of them seem to retail at around &pound;150-200."• GB Lowe wanted to access the internet using a TV set as a monitor. In passing, I mentioned that some "streaming media devices such as the Archos TV+ and Apple TV can also be used for web browsing". Andrew Thompson corrects my error, pointing out that the Apple TV "does go on the net to get podcasts but only through iTunes. There is no Safari-like browser." You can, however, download a TV Flash (bit.ly/aj0054) for $49.95 (&pound;32), which adds a Safari-type (WebKit) browser and also runs popular video formats such as DivX, Xvid, avi and wmv. The catch is that you also need a Mac running OS X v10.4 or later to create the aTV USB Flash drive. Andrew adds: "For the internet on a TV, you can use Nintendo's Wii, but it is hard to navigate with the remotes."
An early build of Windows 7 is now in the hands of thousands of software developers, who got the code at this week's Microsoft Professional Developers Conference in Los Angeles. Major hardware manufacturers already have copies, but many more will get them atWinHEC, the Windows Hardware Engineering Conference, which opens in Los Angeles in November 5.Microsoft is providing tons of information, so I hope they're paying attention. Windows, uniquely, has to work on PCs from more than 10,000 companies, and run well over 1m applications for roughly a billion users. It has to handle everything from tiny handhelds to the large rack-based servers that run major corporations. Indeed, you can build you own PC and expect Windows to work on it.It's no secret that too few suppliers paid attention to the last version, Windows Vista, which therefore got off to a bad start. Badly written software either didn't work correctly or kept bringing up pointless alerts from Vista's UAC (User Account Control) security feature. Some components and peripherals either had no drivers, or worse, had really bad drivers. Some PC manufacturers were slugging Vista systems with old crapware written for XP. Many other problems came from Microsoft's failure to deliver what had been expected – and when.It took the best part of a year (and a lot of investment) to solve these problems, so that today, Vista SP1 is far better than the original – and far better than its reputation. To give just one example, theWindows Engineering blogpoints out that the number of applications and tasks that generate a UAC prompt fell from 775,312 at launch to 168,149 in August 2008, and the number is still falling.Of course, changing Windows isn't like remodelling a boutique, it's more like redesigning a city. It involves moving well over 90% of the whole microcomputer industry, some of which is highly resistant to change. It takes time.The good news about Windows 7 is that it maintains compatibility with Vista device drivers and software, according to John Curran, who heads the Windows Client Group at Microsoft UK. It will therefore benefit from Vista's problems in the same way that XP benefited from Windows 2000's.What else it contains remains to be seen, because Microsoft has changed the way Windows 7 is built. With Vista, features were pretty much added through a "top down" process, which was uneven at best. With Windows 7, development is"bottom up", and teams are not allowed to add their feature to the main build until it has been both coded and tested. You may end up with fewer features, but the quality should be consistently higher.Since builds are not "feature complete", it's hard to say what Windows 7 will include. We know that it will have a much improved UAC and better management of drivers and devices. We know it will have multi-touch features and gesture recognition. We know some parts will have ribbon interfaces: Windows is now being run by Steve Sinofsky, who was ultimately responsible for the ribbons in the hugely successful Office 2007.Either way, it should do well. It doesn't matter if it's not a big upgrade on Vista, because 64-bit Windows 7 is a very big upgrade for the 80% of the market that is still using 32-bit Windows XP.
Developers blew itThey're not taken seriously for good reason (A case of arrested development, October 23). Half-Life is an important game because it shows one way that games could be taken seriously by a wider audience. It's a game devoted to presenting a seamless immersive experience, rather than a "gamey" one. A real effort was made to create the illusion of a world that was only incidentally a battleground.When I played Half-Life I imagined a glorious interactive, immersive storytelling game future ... which ultimately never came. Look at where we are 10 years after Half Life. If anything, on the whole, developers have regressed. Instead of figuring out how to exploit this great new way of presenting games not as naked and furtive hunts for items and points but experiences, they have begun to reintegrate those old elements into their expensive, finely animated, painstakingly presented titles.Developers have shat all over their hard work by including stupid little easy-to-implement but ultimately counterproductive features in a hysterical fear that the 15-year-old Xbox Live moron will not be able to maintain interest in their game.If games want to be taken seriously they are going to have to shit or get off the pot in regards to commiting to strong, truly compelling narrative-rich interactive experiences and leaving their "toyishness" behind.shacknews.com• Ian Livingstone makes a good point: videogaming has always carried a bad rep, whether it's "just for nerds" or "full of violence" or "brain rotting". Like everything else in life, moderation is the key.dailygamesnews.comA social futureAs the shift toward a invisible co-existence with social networks takes place, organisations are just beginning to leverage the benefits (US military targets social nets, October 23). We will see a massive shift toward leveraging social technologies within companies. So how does your company leverage social technology? Is your company concerned about inefficiencies presented by social technology or is it more focused on the benefits provided by them?socialtimes.comHow many stars?We're struggling to see quite how the Guardian managed to give PES 2009 the full five-star award when it is getting worse every year. It's almost as if they have copied and pasted a PES review from a few years ago when it was actually good. Quite clearly, we have a PES fan reviewing the game, blind to the possibility that despite endless promises from Seabass, it has not only failed to improve in its past three incarnations, but it has actually got progressively worse. The scary thing is how many people will actually use this review as a buying guide. "Neil Davey tried banking, hated it and is now a freelance journalist specialising in film, food, drink and general cynicism." Perhaps he should stick to those areas then, eh?snappygamer.comFree our laptopsI think Charles' maths is suspect but the point is well made about "free" (Newly asked questions, October 23).accmanpro.comSnap unhappyI got caught taking a snap at the V&amp;A of the model of the Moscow Telecom tower (Victor Keegan, October 23). I don't really see why you can't take pictures in galleries.living4pleasurealone.blogspot.comSeconds outThe question is: what sort of watch would you wear when making an attempt on the Land Speed Record? (Faster than a bullet - the 1,000mph car, October 23)•equationoftime.com/forums• Read all this week's letters in full atguardian.co.uk/technology/blog
Britain's local councils - custodians of vast amounts of electronic data about our lives and local environments - have received a ticking off for their tardiness in freeing data. The Power of Information Task Force, set up earlier this year to promote web 2.0 thinking across the government, this month warned councils that they could face prosecution unless they publish terms and conditions for reusing their data. The task force also urges councils to waive powers to charge fees.Local government has emerged as a major obstacle to setting taxpayer-funded data free for reuse. Unlike central government bodies, local authorities (including police forces) hold the copyright in data they produce, and some see it as a potential source of revenue. Earlier this year, a study found that only one-fifth offered data under the government's recommended "click use" licence.New draft guidance from the Power of Information Task Force urges councils to get on board. "If everyone adopts the same approach to licensing, it will be easier for everyone to reuse local authority information - including local authorities themselves! Using the same licence across central and local government means that all our public sector information can be used together more easily and simply."The task force warns that councils wanting to trade information could be breaking the law. "Councils are often monopoly information holders. If you trade unfairly and someone complains, you will be investigated by the Office of Public Sector Information - a process that will take time and cost money."Not all authorities are laggards. Kent county council said this week that it is shortly to pilot a free data scheme on its website. The idea, says Noel Hatch, projects and research lead in the council's innovation team, is to take data that the council already publishes in hard-to-use formats and make it easily available to community groups to mix and match in mashups. "People will be able to mix our information with that being released by other services, and with online tools such as Google Maps or Flickr," he says.The idea that free data can be a force for digital and social inclusion also appears - fleetingly - in the latest cross-government technology strategy to emerge from Whitehall. The Digital Inclusion Action Plan, published for consultation, says: "Future challenges include considering how to ... promote innovative ways of providing all sectors of the public with better information about public services."But we'd suggest it goes much further.• Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog
Microsoft has announced a new cloud-based version of Windows called Azure, and made an early preview available at its Professional Developers Conference in Los Angeles. Azure applications run on Microsoft's data centres instead of in-house servers. There is nothing new in hosting applications on the internet, but what's interesting is what Microsoft is doing to make such applications easier to create and, crucially, to scale smoothly at times of peak demand.It will be pay-as-you-go computing, with Azure bringing new virtual servers online as needed. Azure also provides essential services such as database and document storage. The end user will not notice any difference, since Azure applications will look like any other web or Windows application, but companies benefit by off-loading investment in computer hardware and management to Microsoft, and paying only for the computing power they actually use.This is not the first cloud computing platform. Amazon is a pioneer in the field, with services such as the Elastic Compute Cloud, which hosts virtual computers running Linux or Windows, the SimpleDB cloud database and the Simple Storage Service, which stores files online. Google has its App Engine, which is like Azure in that it hosts applications, along with a data store called BigTable.Salesforce.comhas an online application platform calledForce.com, which it calls Platform as a service.Microsoft's advantage is that Azure is familiar territory for developers who already know Windows. Azure uses the .NET Framework for programming and hooks into other Microsoft services like Exchange for email and SharePoint for document collaboration. Azure also allows companies to extend their existing user directory to Azure web applications.Microsoft expects organisations to adopt Azure gradually, integrating it with their existing systems. It is a hybrid approach that will be attractive to organisations wary of trusting everything to the cloud.That said, Microsoft also has challenges in selling Azure. It is perceived as a Windows company, not a web company, and its current business model depends on selling software licences for on-premise servers, supported by armies of partners with skills in installing and maintaining these systems. If Azure succeeds, the need for all these partners will diminish, so Microsoft is disrupting its own community.Companies like Google and Amazon do not carry all this baggage. Another snag with cloud services is that they sometimes fail, with potentially severe consequences for business. "We wouldn't say we'd never have downtime," admits Mark Rogers, director of cloud services. Even in the preview phase, the industry will be watching Azure to see whether that promised resilience will be delivered.
In 1950, when the mathematician Alan Turing set out to tackle the question "Can machines think?" the intellectual litmus paper he settled on was conversation. The Turing test - in which an AI program attempts to fool judges into believing they are conversing with a human - has never been passed, though two weeks ago, a program named Elbot came close.The Turing test has validated communication as a convenient signifier for machine intelligence. Which is perhaps why chat between computer-controlled enemies has become such a familiar element of modern videogames. The groundbreaking 2005 shooter F.E.A.R was one of the first, allowing AI characters to shout out your position. Of course, providing a series of stock phrases triggered by specific game events isn't exactly cutting-edge stuff, but - as has always been the case with videogame AI - the illusion is everything. This is why the programmer Will Wright invented a whole gibberish language - Simlish - for his Sims games: he wanted the impression of communication without the computational nightmare of recording thousands of phrases.Things are advancing: enemy soldiers are becoming proactive, formulating and verbalising simple strategies. In Ubisoft's Far Cry 2, you can hear your opponents helping each other. As the game's technology director Dominic Guay explains: "One AI can tell two others to flank the player while a third rushes him and the first takes care of suppression fire."This sort of chatter increases the sense of immersion - and it also provides clues about enemy operations. Is that shrub you've just dived behind providing sufficient cover? If your enemies are yelling "I've lost him!", the chances are it is.Jeff Orkin, the programmer behind the AI in F.E.A.R and an AI researcher at MIT, says communication and verbalisation must go further. "We want enemies that truly live in persistent, open-ended worlds, and are working towards longer-term plans such as building defences, disseminating information and sabotaging the player's efforts."Stumbling into a group of enemies as they bicker over strategies for your demise is going to be a key pleasure of next-generation shoot-'em-ups. Verbal communication between the player and AI characters is another inevitable progression. In EndWar, Ubisoft allows the player to control units using voice commands delivered via a microphone. This hints toward a future in which the player will chat with AI allies and taunt enemies. Turing would be impressed.Get all the latest videogames news and gossip straight from our trio of bloggersguardian.co.uk/technology/gamesblog
Free: 50 Googlephone appsT-Mobile has announced 50 free applications for downloading to its G1 Googlephone, which goes on sale today.bit.ly/tmgphonePollard in pinkThe Breast Cancer Campaign has launched a pink Sue Pollard screensaver for tomorrow, which is Wear It Pink Day.bit.ly/suepinkHauppauge reaches PinnacleAvid Technology is selling its PCTV line to Hauppauge Digital, which already has the WinTV range of PC TV peripherals.bit.ly/wintvpcThe non-standard webAn Opera study of 3.5m web addresses has found that only 4.13% of web pages comply with the W3C's internet standards.bit.ly/nonstandComes with musicNokia's "all you can eat" Comes With Music service will finally go live on November 3.music.nokia.com/downloadLaCie LaCinemaLaCie has launched an "all terrain" LaCinema Rugged portable hard drive that plugs into a TV set so you can play your movies on any TV set.bit.ly/lacineDells, with moviesIn the US, Dell is offering to preload PCs with music and movies, including the Matrix and Spider-Man trilogies.bit.ly/dellmovsSomme trench mapsPoppyland Publishing has published some georegistered trench maps from the first world war, overlaid on modern satellite imagery, via GoogleMaps.bit.ly/ww1maps
The smartphone landscape is changing rapidly with the arrival of the T-Mobile G1, the first phone based on Google's Android software, and the huge success of Apple's iPhone business. And if both of these take big slices of the smartphone market, that leaves less for everybody else – unless they can find a way to respond.Research In Motion (RIM) is already in motion: it has spent the past couple of years moving into the consumer market with hot new products such as the BlackBerry Bold and Storm. Nokia, the world's largest phonemaker, has targeted high-end users with the E71, N95 and N96 and similar phones. Nokia has also taken control of the Symbian smartphone operating system and is making that open source as well. Meanwhile, Microsoft has ... done not very much at all."We're very confident in our strategy, so I don't think we need a particular response," says Alex Reeve, who heads up the Windows Mobile business in the UK.But while Microsoft sold 18m smartphone licences in the year to June, 2m short of its target, Apple says it sold 6.9m iPhones during the last quarter alone. As the iPhone goes global, it's not hard to see it outselling Microsoft's 50+ handset manufacturers combined. It's also not hard to see many of those 50+ handset manufacturers at least trying Android as well.Microsoft is in a tricky position because, like Google, it doesn't make phones. It supplies an operating system that anyone can license, but ultimately it's reliant on partners who may have other ideas.Taiwan's HTC, for example, has been a major manufacturer of Windows Mobile phones, but now it's making G1 Googlephones as well.Windows Mobile can't even rely on its parent, Microsoft to give it a market advantage. Phones running Windows Mobile were the first to offer good synchronisation with Microsoft Exchange, which is the standard corporate email server, and this gave Windows Mobile an advantage in the business market. However, Microsoft has since licensed Exchange sync to rival handset-makers including Palm, Nokia and Apple.Locked marketReeve says: "We've taken the approach that we want as many people to have access to Exchange as possible. We have absolute confidence in our ability to sell our mobile product without locking people in."Of course, Microsoft still has advantages for corporate use. Ken Dulaney at Gartner, the leading analyst covering handhelds and smartphones, points out that all the systems that were designed for warehouse and factory floor use run Windows Mobile. Also, companies can develop their own applications using Microsoft Visual Studio – which they already use to develop PC applications – and install those applications however they like."We'd never lock people in like the iPhone," says Reeve. "The whole point of a smartphone, in the Microsoft philosophy, is to make it open to applications, so everybody can build the solutions they really want."Google's Android software is open-source (it's based on Linux) and free, so it could also challenge Microsoft as an open application platform. But Reeve doesn't think the G1 is a threat. "It has no integration at all with the enterprise," he says, and Google has a "kill switch" so it can erase software that you load on the device.According to Dulaney, Microsoft had a choice with Windows Mobile 6: it could either "defend their enterprise turf against RIM", or focus on improving the user interface and attack the consumer market where the iPhone was making headway. "In either case, they were going to suffer," says Dulaney."I think they chose the right thing, which was to defend the enterprise area, where they're strong," he says.Reeve, however, rejects the idea that Microsoft has been slipping in the consumer market. "We're growing very quickly in that area," he says.He points to the HTC Diamond, HTC Touch HD, Samsung Omnia and the Xperia X1 – Sony Ericsson's first Windows Mobile phone – as being stylish designs with consumer appeal. A hit product can change everything, at least for a while.Stylish hardware does not necessarily come with stylish software, of course, and Windows Mobile has come in for plenty of criticism. Dulaney says Microsoft has "different priorities – a passion for developers", but lacks Apple's passion for the user interface (UI). "They just don't have the genes," he says.Face to faceThe hardware suppliers and network operators can do something about that by changing the UI, as Palm has done, or by adding their own interface, as HTC did with TouchFLO. So far, however, nothing has come close to the iPhone.Whether Microsoft will be able to do that with Windows Mobile 7 remains to be seen: Reeve says Microsoft isn't commenting.But in the long run, the real question is whether Microsoft cares. If Windows Mobile sells 20m licences a year at a hypothetical $7 to $8 (&pound;4.50 to &pound;5) each, that's only $140m to $160m, which isn't as much as a decent Xbox 360 game. It's a very long way from the $4.6bn that Apple reckons the iPhone generated in the last quarter alone.Still, Microsoft isn't likely to drop out of the mobile phone market, for two reasons. First, there's value in the way Windows Mobile fits into Microsoft's whole enterprise business, supporting Microsoft Office, Exchange and its Live web sites. Second, Windows Mobile isn't a standalone system, it's just one example of a software stack based on Windows CE, alongside PocketPC and Windows Automotive. CE has been used in thousands of products including set-top boxes, petrol pumps, jukeboxes and even sewing machines.Given the scale of the investment in Windows CE, and Microsoft's ambitions in the consumer electronics area, Microsoft must surely keep it going.What I think we are likely to see, under the Windows not Walls slogan, is Microsoft moving to a broader "platform play". Instead of focusing on particular products, Microsoft could present Windows as a more interoperable offering for the 2010s.The platform will have three legs - Windows 7, Windows Mobile 7 and Windows Live - with Live Mesh rings automatically synchronising data as required across all your devices. (If you want to play with Live Mesh,sign up for the beta.)Applications such as email, messaging and word processing will be available on all devices, and also online at Windows Live, with the two working together. You can take your pick about which you prefer at any given time, because they'll interoperate.In the ringIt sounds like a good plan – but then, so did the Windows CE strategy in the early 1990s. However, even the best plans can fail if the execution isn't up to scratch, and sometimes things just don't work out the way anyone might expect.For example, starting in the late 1990s, Microsoft has spent the thick end of a decade establishing its own mobile platform. It can't have imagined being overtaken by a late entrant such as Apple's iPhone. It surely couldn't have imagined being challenged by a phone from a search engine company, Google, that barely existed at the time.Bill Gates met similar challenges in 1995 when he made Microsoft do a U-turn on the internet, performed with unexpected agility and speed. Whether Steve Ballmer can do it remains to be seen.
I quite had forgotten what an inefficient place a proper office is for working in. In the past fortnight I have spent more consecutive days in an office than at any time since I quit the Independent 11 years ago and started working from home. Nor have there been any huge advances in technology for office productivity: the breakthrough there was the invention 20 years ago of lightweight stereo headphones, which allow you to pretend you are not in the office at all. And though these have got better, smaller, and more widespread, they are hardly new.Against that, the now universal and perhaps inexorable trend of packing workers more closely together makes headphones more necessary and adds the need to be quiet to every conversation. I hate being distracted, but my own processes of thought are probably hugely distracting. I will say out loud a sentence to see if it sounds right. I get up and walk about. I exclaim or swear when struck by an idea: to me a successful newspaper is one that cannot be read in silence, but provokes outbursts of incredulity, laughter and indignation from its readers, and it's best produced in an atmosphere of social noise. I quite see that this is impossible in a tightly packed open plan office.Then there is the business of dealing with other people's computers. It is an unarguable fact that no one else will ever have the software that I am used to, set up the way that I like it. I am almost certainly unusual here. As the relative failure of Adblock Plus shows, most people don't tweak their software in any way at all; and I wouldn't want to argue that tweaking is productive, on balance.But I am dependent on the various electronic scrapbooks I use to collect and collate information: at the moment, Microsoft OneNote and the Firefox extension Zotero. Without those, I don't know what I have been thinking about anything, nor even what I am supposed to be thinking about. I have never yet found an office where there is any widespread adoption of that kind of software: people are discouraged, for obvious reasons, from using their private solutions, and groups tend to just send emails, and if necessary talk to each other.Nor is the office hardware likely to be better. As soon as there are specialist departments whose job it is to ensure that everyone has usable equipment, someone gets lumbered with the sticky space bar and the mouse that scrolls only one way. When I work at home, sagging or second-rate equipment is an occasion for rejoicing. It means I can get a replacement. But in offices, if you have ended up with the keyboard where the space bar works 75% of the time, or the mouse scrolls up but not down, that's tough. There's nothing to be done and no point complaining.What technology has changed is the speed and density of the links that bind external workers into the social mesh of the office. The mixture of email, instant messaging, texting and just plain telephone calls mean that a mid-range mobile phone now offers much more computing power for journalistic purposes than the entire resources of a national newspaper could 10 years ago - and I can put it in my pocket. Laptops are nicer to read and write on, but this is still an astonishing development. If all that journalism needed were technology, then everyone in the western world could be a journalist now.Yet there is still one huge advantage to offices which working at home can never approach. Just as you generate your own efficiencies at home, so do you generate your own inefficiencies: all the perfections of my software and hardware are the result of hours spent not writing. In an office, there are politics and gossip. Outside it, you have to make your own entertainment, but this is as easy as opening a new browser window. There is a law of the conservation of busywork that operates all across the universe. So it does not matter that we could now in principle work more efficiently on a desert island than in the most modern and impersonal office. In the end, technology can never supply the pressure towards productivity supplied by a room full of fellow workers, all apparently busy - even if they are just emailing gossip and YouTube links to one another.•thewormbook.com/helmintholog
Not for nothing is this called the Google Phone (officially, the G1). From the moment you turn it on, once you've pressed the picture of the bug-like Android (its operating system) on the touch screen, you're invited to open, or log in, to your Google account. There's no avoiding putting yourself in its embrace.The obvious comparison is, of course, Apple's iPhone: touch screen, installable applications via a "marketplace", GPS, able to play music, still pictures but no video, and a &pound;35+ per month subscription. But the G1 comes with a real, rather than virtual, keyboard: from its normal portrait orientation, you push the screen sideways to a landscape, and the keyboard is revealed beneath. It's positive, with nicely rounded buttons, and a darned sight easier to use than the iPhone's.But always putting the screen in landscape to type can get confusing. At least though the keyboard is good enough that you could write a decent-length email or even document and not get properly annoyed by it.While the built-in Google Mail application (there's also a separate "email" application if you're one of these strange people who uses things other than Google) is good, the browser is less so. On the iPhone, if a web page doesn't work, you blame the page. On other phones, you blame the phone. On the G1, I found the browser confusing, and less reliable - even though it uses WebKit, the same rendering engine as the iPhone.And you're wondering: does it do that multi-touch thing? Yes, but not as well as the iPhone. You can "pull" to magnify the screen, but it's not as smooth or simple as the iPhone's. Which is what this has to meet and beat. Same price, same hype.It's that tight embrace of Google that you notice. The Google Docs, calendar, contacts, maps, instant messaging, YouTube and of course email. (How would Steve Ballmer tolerate this phone? It would drive him mad trying to break all the defaults.) Then there's the Marketplace, whence you can download third-party applications to do, well, this and that.I tried the weather (from Accuweather), which worked well with the phone's GPS. But generally the applications and games are disappointing. Apple's eager third-party developers have created a far wider and more useful set; and its App Store is a better, if sometimes inconvenient, stopping-off place for extra bits and pieces.The smartest touch of all is that you can set the screen to unlock with a pattern that you scroll with a finger over at least four of nine points. Far better than a Pin, you won't forget it, and the millions of possibilities make it near-unhackable. Let's see it from everyone. Hell, even on ATMs.In the meantime, this is a serviceable handset that needs better third-party applications to challenge the iPhone - which it already exceeds in usability for typing, but little else.Pros: Good keyboard, smart unlock, tight Google integrationCons: Tight Google integration, few applications•t-mobile.co.uk
I am writing this on Windows 7, the successor to Vista that was previewed at Microsoft's Professional Developer's Conference in Los Angeles earlier this week. Microsoft is keen to avoid a repetition of Vista's shambolic launch. Mike Nash, corporate vice-president, spoke at the press briefing about learning from the Vista experience, and the man in charge of Windows engineering, Steven Sinofsky, emphasised the rigour and discipline of the Windows 7 development process.It appears to be working. Even in the preview handed out to the press, Windows 7 feels more polished and less annoying than its predecessor. The changes are not dramatic, but that is a good thing. Microsoft has left the core architecture untouched, so that software and devices that worked on Vista should still work.Microsoft is also making Windows "quieter"; in other words, reducing the number of prompts that interrupt your work. For example, too many applications now install themselves in the Windows system tray and pop up frequent notifications. Windows 7 lets you hide them or turn off their messages, returning control to the user. You can also fine-tune User Account Control, the security feature which in Vista flashes the screen and shows a dialog whenever you change a system setting.Windows 7 does have some user interface changes, the most obvious being a revised taskbar, which shows an icon for every running application. The Windows 7 taskbar has larger icons, full-screen application previews when you hover the mouse, and "jump lists": pop-up menus that control key features, such as starting or stopping a song in Windows Media Player, or visiting a favourite site in Internet Explorer. Application windows can be made transparent to see files on the desktop, and when you drag a window with the mouse, it snaps to screen borders: a small touch but one that feels natural.Windows Explorer, the main tool for file management, has a new feature called libraries, which pulls together content from multiple locations and lets you treat them as one. For example, if you have some photos on an internal hard drive and others on an external drive, you can include both locations in one library and search it like a single folder. Applets like WordPad and Paint have been refreshed, and now sport fat ribbon toolbars like those introduced in Office 2007.However, it will not be the new features that make or break Windows 7, but rather its quality, compatibility and performance. Windows 7 is less ambitious than Vista, its development is less rushed, and provided Microsoft can dissuade its partners from overlaying it with third-party add-ons of lesser quality, this release promises to be one users will actually enjoy.
"Our mission is to change the world by spreading the knowledge of innovators," says the publisher Tim O'Reilly with typical northern California enthusiasm. "I always put my faith in the hackers," he smiles.O'Reilly Media is synonymous with high-quality technical reference. It's not as dry as it sounds: it releases an impressive number of books and manuals a year, ranging from tech to travel, and the 54-year old so-called meme-peddler from Sebastopol, CA, has become the guru of technologists around the world. His successful balance of content and spin - and his ability to spot the communities that have crossover potential - means that he has become both spiritual father to alpha geeks worldwide and translator to the masses. Most people associate him with devising the "iterate and iterate often" manifesto of the web 2.0 philosophy, but that notch is just one of the web revolutions on his bedpost.Vibrant hackersLast week, his enthusiasm drew a vibrant community of hackers from across Europe to the first non-US O'Reilly Web 2.0 Expo in Berlin. The cosmopolitan capital's bullish optimism, reflected in the glass buildings of the new skyscrapers at Potsdamer Platz and the influx of creatives seeking cool and chic at affordable prices, is attractive to a community that itself was in the doldrums less than a decade ago."Our corporate mission for 2003 was to reignite enthusiasm in the computer industry," O'Reilly offers. "Everyone was in the dumps after the dotcom bust, and we wanted to tell a story that made people see how much was actually still going on." The aim was to market the web rather than the books, and so its first release, The Whole Internet User's Guide and Manual, came with a free copy of the internet. "We started the Global Network Navigator, the first commercial website, as a way of promoting the net." A few years later, he worked with another community to establish the open-source movement, again to promote his products.O'Reilly's latest contribution to the lexicon of the internet has captured the imaginations of creative, corporate and governmental industries. "Web 2.0" is a buzzword for the new medium, a constantly updating feedback system evolving at the speed of light. It's become the must-do-or-die killer app that's inspired a social media gold rush that many in the traditional corporate world admit they don't have a grip on.The biggest stumbling block, and that which O'Reilly is trying to overcome on his latest speaking tour, is that both the consumer and the company must sacrifice their control in order to succeed with web 2.0. For enterprise, this means accepting negative PR rather than controlling the brand image. For the customer, this means losing control of more and more personal data in order to get the most out of a service. O'Reilly is keen to point out the positives to both parties. He uses the example of Wasabi, which uses credit card data to identify consumer trends for social recommendations: "Every swipe of a credit card is a vote. If you go to a restaurant once and never come back, it doesn't really tell you anything. But if your credit card data says that you go back two, three or four times, that tells you something about that restaurant that's way more powerful than you might get with an explicit review."Got your numberWhile enthusiastic, his spin doesn't address the potential privacy infringements that leave many consumer rights activists concerned. He parries that blow: "With web 2.0, how the application is using your personal data is front and centre in the interface versus something that's hidden behind the closed doors of your bank, where they figure out whether or not they'll give you a loan based on the results of the obscure algorithms that only they know," he argues. "Because it's consumer-focused, the customer can see what's going on, can control it, can respond to it and can opt out."This assumes that the customer recognises that the data is being extracted and used, and is able realistically to assess its long-term value in light of the immediate benefits that are on offer. As others have noted, this isn't always the case, particularly when using opt-out paradigms. But O'Reilly is optimistic that attitudes towards data ownership will change. To him, evidence points to what consumers will do in future: "When the Facebook feed was first launched, there was a lot of backlash about that from a privacy point of view. But that kind of lifestreaming now is a whole industry. People adjusted."He doesn't offer any more on how people adjust, or what implications there may be. He's focused on the bright lights of a technological future, and he will be guiding the way. "Peddling a meme is really about helping people to see what's possible," he says. And for O'Reilly, to do it successfully means adding value where he sees something that really matters. He'll think about the cost later.
HP got into the netbook marketsix months agowith the HP2133, but its original machine ran Vista on a slow Via C7 processor. (See mymini-review.) Now the world's biggest PC maker has followed Asus and others with theHP Mini 1000 series, which runs Windows XP on a 1.6GHz Intel Atom N270 processor. Prices start at $399.99.HP's sales blurbsays:The HP Mini 1000 is the perfect on-the-go companion for the ultra-mobile consumer. Stay connected with more people, in more places. Our HP Mini is available with an 8.9" or 10.2" diagonal display, weighs only 2.25 lb., and has a nearly full sized keyboard. Personal computing just got a whole lot smaller.The basic price gets you an 8.9 inch screen and half a gig of memory. It costs an extra $50 for the 10.2 inch screen (but it still does WSVGA: ie 1024 x 600 pixels), and an extra $25 to get 1GB of memory. Since the Flash drive is only 8GB, you may also want to pay an extra $40 for a 16GB solid state drive or $50 for a slow (4,200 RPM) 60GB hard drive. However, a fully expanded version does not look very competitively priced.Also, you can't upgrade the operating system to Vista (a Linux version will appear later) or upgrade the Intel 950 graphics, and there's no long-life battery.However, youcanget a special Vivian Tam edition, which is red and peonic. HP announced this on September 9 (press release) when "Vivienne Tam and HP unveiled the design of the new must-have digital clutch on the catwalk today at Tam's fashion show during New York's Fashion Week at Bryant Park." It says:The peony design features a unique blend of Asian and Western cultures, antiquity and modern style, technology and fashion. It was inspired by Tam's "China Chic" style, which is recognized from the runways in Milan to the Olympics in Beijing and represents her personal mantra to live well and be beautiful.Gizmodohaspicturesof the machine, but not the fashion show.Funny idea.However, the HP2133 was a solid and beautifully made bit of kit. The Mini 1000 looks like a standard plastic netbook, and it looks like something that HP has bought in from one of the usual Taiwanese netbook suppliers. In other words, I'm guessing that it's a bit of badge-engineering, where the 2133 was real HP engineering.Sure, the HP2133 is bigger, but its aluminium/magnesium construction, quality keyboard, scratch-resistant WXGA screen, Windows Vista and $1,500 look-and-feel make it a much more desirable machine … if HP would just upgrade the spec a bit. Fitting an Atom would be a start, but there'sa petitionasking for a Nano CPU, an nVidia MCP79u GPU, and a 6-cell battery, which would make it a killer product. But don't get your hopes up: the petition has only 33 signatures.
When showing the pre-beta version of Windows 7 at Microsoft'sPDCin Los Angeles, Steve Sinofsky showed a debranded netbook running Windows 7.Ars Technicagot him to confirm that Windows 7 was targeted at netbooks ("Of course!"). The site has put up the rambling conversation verbatim, but it contains a couple of interesting points. The core exchange is as follows:AT: Because that's been sort of the embarassing situation with XP's being extended, extended, extended and one of the drivers is the netbooks that Vista just won't fit on.SS: Well here's my view of it. So first, I'm not going to get into defining a netbook, let's just say many of these new, low-end PCs are selling with Vista on them. The model I got, that I was running today is available with Vista on it. The one I got all my friends as gifts, because you know, they're like gifts now. I put Vista Ultimate on all of them, I just upgraded Vista to Vista Ultimate.The key thing that really drove the XP installation where the very first ones of these netbooks tried to have only flash drives. The reality is that, for better or worse, Vista's disk footprint wasn't going to fit on 8GB of flash. And the reason for that is not anything to do with performance, or bloat or anything. We do a lot of really customer focused things, like we have a gigabyte and a half of printer drivers. So you might not want them, but boy they're really useful when you need them.Ars should have pushed a bit, because really there is only one version of Vista, and that's Vista Ultimate. If you have a cheaper version, Microsoft will be happy to sell you an "in place upgrade" over the phone.Presumably, Microsoft will also come up with a "Netbook Win 7" at a suitably low price, because netbook manufacturers are paying less than half as much for XP under Microsoft's ULCPC deal as they would pay for Vista -- or, indeed, they used to pay for XP.But if they do, that's likely to make Windows 7 less profitable than Vista, and it will be interesting to see how Microsoft tackles that problem. Possible answers include: by adding a subscription element; and by using Windows to display advertising.
In recent years technology giants Microsoft, Yahoo and Google have been widely criticised for their business practices in repressive countries such as China. But yesterday the trio tackled their critics by joining a new scheme to help protectthe freedoms of internet usersaround the world.The Global Network Initiative, a new human rights coalition, says it is working to help companies stand up to authoritarian governments in countries such as China, Vietnam, Syria, Burma and Iran.As well as the triumvirate of hi-tech companies, the group is also being backed by a wide range of campaigners and academic organisations, includingHuman Rights Watchand theElectronic Frontier Foundation. The initiative aims to "protect and advance user rights to freedom of expression and privacy".The initiative's backers said it is more important than ever for technology companies to understand their role in protecting users around the world."The number of states actively seeking to censor online content and access personal information is growing," saidColin Maclay of the Berkman Center for Internet &amp; Society at Harvard Law School, one of the initiative's signatories."A strong code of conduct for companies embodies the most promising approach to dilemmas that neither national law nor international regulation can effectively resolve at this time."The companies joining the initiative have agreed to follow a list of principles, including a commitment to consider fighting unwarranted government demands in the courts.The support fromGoogle,MicrosoftandYahoodenotes a remarkable turnaround for the three technology giants, which have all faced criticism over their human rights records.Microsoft was accused of capitulating to Beijing for its censorship of Chinese blogs, while Google faced a barrage of attacks after it decided to launch a censored version of its search engine index in China in 2006.However, it is Yahoo that has faced the most condemnation, in particular after ithanded the Chinese government details that led to the imprisonment of dissident journalist Shi Tao in 2004.Tao is now serving a 10-year prison sentence for passing on a briefing document from the Chinese government to an American campaign group. He emailed the file - which explained how Beijing officials were ordering journalists not to write about the 15th anniversary of the Tiananmen Square massacre – from a Yahoo account, which was then traced back to him with the company's assistance.Last year Yahoo made a private settlement with the family of Tao and another journalist, but chief executive Jerry Yang said in a statement on the new initiative that he wanted to make sure that the company's "actions match our values"."These principles provide a valuable roadmap for companies like Yahoo operating in markets where freedom of expression and privacy are unfairly restricted. Through the collective efforts of industry, advocates and government, we will continue to see technology and the internet as a way to improve people's lives," said the statement.The coalition also represents a truce between campaign groups and technology industry leaders, which have had testy relationships in the past. Human Rights Watch, in particular, had accused companies of having attitudes that were "arbitrary, opaque and unaccountable", and argued that technology corporations should be among the last to succumb to government demands."It was ironic that companies whose existence depends on freedom of information and expression have taken on the role of censor," said the group in 2006.
Buongiorno from the Nokia Game Summit in Rome! The city is recovering from the worst rainstorms in 50 years, but luckily the weather has improved and the floods haven't knocked out the Wi-FI in the press room.Just wanted to quickly post on some N-Gage stuff that's been revealed so far. Nokia's executive vice-president of entertainment and communication, Tero Ojanpera, has just been on stage to talk a little about the company's vision for its games platform. The desire, going forward, is to integrate all the functionality of your phone into games – a lot more than we're already seeing; so we'll get games that use your camera, Nokia Maps and GPS, as well as social networking features.Apparently there are now 400,000 users with N-Gage Arena profiles at the moment – quite a small number when you consider the many millions of N-Gage enabled devices available out there. They're very much viewing the April launch of the platform as a 'soft launch', and are ramping up to something bigger once more phones come with N-Gage embedded.Anyway, they've announced an interesting new game….Dance Fabulous. Customisable dancing on your phone!Dance Fabulous, due out next year, is a sort of rhythm action title, in which you create and customise an avatar then build a range of dance moves into your own routine. Apparently, there are plans to integrate with Nokia's music store so you can get the character to dance to real tracks. You'll also be able to upload your dance routines to a community site.The game has been developed in collaboration with ex-Eurythmics star, Dave Stewart and will feature up-and-coming US pop starletCindy Gomez, whose own moves have been motion-captured and included. Apparently, I'll be meeting both of them later.More soon...
Okay this is something new. Chris Schilling writes for the likes of GamesTM, The Official Nintendo Magazine and X360, and has been somewhat angered bythe mixed critical responseto Wii Music, Nintendo's idiosyncratic music toy. So he got in touch with me and asked if he could get a counter view up on Gamesblog. He's a great writer and a fellow Manchester City supporter, so I said, yeah, sure.So here's his passionate defence...It's been a long and rocky road to retail for Wii Music. One of the first games announced alongside the Wii, it was briefly demonstrated by Shigeru Miyamoto at E3 in 2006, as he conducted a virtual orchestra by waving the remote controller. The performance was given a rapturous reception by the attendant journalists, and convinced many gamers of the revolutionary nature of Wii.Just over two years later, and how times have changed. Nintendo's rather successful courting of the casual gamer demographic has led to murmurings of discontent – to say the least – from the company's core fanbase, many expressing dissatisfaction at the apparent lack of games catering to their particular needs. The nadir for most was this year's E3 conference, where Nintendo used its press briefing to demonstrate three major releases, all of which seemed better suited to its expanded audience rather than the self-proclaimed 'hardcore'.While Wii Sports Resort and Animal Crossing: Let's Go To The City were greeted with mild disappointment, the real vitriol was reserved for Wii Music, with an uncharacteristically weak – if enthusiastic - demonstration of this non-game leading to many internet in-jokes, animated GIFs and declarations that Nintendo had either "lost it" or "sold out". Indeed, even some critics were vociferous in their condemnation of Wii Music – US site IGN memorably claiming that, based on its hands-on impressions at E3, it was looking at a score of 2/10 (the site eventually – and rather grudgingly - settled on 5/10 for its review of the finished product).The problem with Wii Music is that it's a very difficult product to effectively demonstrate – 'playing is believing' might be a cliché, but it's an appropriate one in this case. Wii Music is essentially the antithesis of Guitar Hero and Rock Band. You don't follow note patterns as precisely as you're able to, you can't 'fail' a song, and you don't earn points for skilled playing. In fact, there aren't any traditional gaming rewards for a good performance.Instead, Wii Music is its own reward – the simple act of playing along to a given tune, by moving the Wii remote and/or nunchuk accordingly depending on the instrument you're holding. Piano-style instruments involve downward motions of either or both controllers, guitars see you holding the nunchuk as the neck while the remote strums; you can play a violin with the remote as a bow, while detaching the nunchuk allows you to hold the remote like a wind instrument, with the 1 and 2 buttons used to play notes. Further complexities are added with note modifiers using alternative button or stick inputs, but for the most part you can make something which sounds halfway decent by simply shaking or pressing in time with the music.It's theoretically impossible to play a bum note in Wii Music – no matter when you shake or tap, the sound you play will fit with the key of the song in question. This might suggest that Wii Music is entirely lacking in challenge; not true. You only need to witness the cacophonies created by the IGN team and the presenters on ABC news as proof that it takes skill to create something listenable. Not that that's the point of Wii Music. The joy is in the creative aspect – with over sixty instruments available, Wii Music actively encourages you to record your own personal take on the fifty provided songs. Fancy giving Twinkle Twinkle Little Star a reggae tinge? You can. Think Eine Kleine Nachtmusik needs a beatbox backing? No problem.Sony's LittleBIGPlanet promises to let gamers 'play, create, share', but that motto could equally apply to Wii Music, although here the first two are intertwined. Playing is creating, making the process swifter and a whole lot more entertaining than LBP's complex level crafting. And though you might not think the results would be as rewarding, you've obviously not nailed a perfect electronica remix of the F-Zero theme.And if you're not up to tackling all six parts of a song, then you can rely on the assistance of the Tutes – tiny musical helpers resembling Sesame Street puppets, who provide effective backing.The knowledge that, even with little musical skill, you can simply follow the notes of a song fairly accurately and not be punished for missing your cues means that many are likely to indulge their inner artist – potentially many more than with the convoluted studio setup on Guitar Hero: World Tour. The simplicity of sharing songs helps – although it's a great shame you can't upload songs online, you'll be able to swap compositions with those on your Wii Friends list simply by attaching it to a message. You're alerted instantly when the game starts up if you've received a new song, and from there you can upload their jam to listen to or play over – using it either as inspiration for your own creative endeavours, or simply to correct any mistakes they've made.Wii Music isn't without its problems. The three minigames provided are a little lacking. The orchestra conducting of that early E3 demo resurfaces here as Wii Maestro, while a handbell-ringing diversion offers some short-lived multiplayer fun – both suffer from only having five songs to play along to. The third offers something a little more educational, asking you to recognise the pitch of notes played by various Mii characters, but this seems almost patronisingly easy. The virtual drumkit offers balance board support for those who own Wii Fit, but in requiring simultaneous motions and button inputs, it feels counter-intuitive, particularly as you're hitting thin air rather than the drum pads of a Rock Band or a Guitar Hero.Meanwhile, the tracklist offers some classic Nintendo tunes and a few more contemporary numbers, but it's mostly public domain stuff mixed with a handful of classical pieces. It's not as big an issue as you might think – the songs are kept simple in order to maximise the potential for experimentation, and almost all are more enjoyable to play than to listen to - but downloadable songs or instruments would definitely ease that particular pain. "No plans right now," says Nintendo – hopefully that will change in the near future. The controls sometimes lack consistency, too. A slightly feeble movement can result in a missed note, while vigorous motions occasionally register as two notes or beats – far from ideal when you're attempting to master the percussion instruments. Yet this last issue is easily overcome by ensuring your movements are more regimented – and you can always argue that mastering the controls effectively mimics the difficulties inherent in learning a real instrument.Ostensibly all too simplistic, Wii Music is undoubtedly a product with significant hidden depths. When you consider that each and every song needs to cater for any potential controller input at any time, you begin to realise that this is no throwaway plaything, but an elegantly designed creative tool that just happens to be a lot of fun. Far from the disaster some were predicting, and clearly worthy of a more substantial time investment than some critics are willing to give, Wii Music might not achieve the sales success of Wii Sports, Play and Fit, but it deserves to be treated with respect as a superior example of a mass market-friendly play experience that offers rich rewards to those prepared to give it a chance.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
It took a multimillion dollar lawsuit, two years of tense negotiations, and an awful lot of scanning. But yesterday the publishing world stood on the threshold of a digital era after a US deal paved the way to transform publishing.The agreement between Google and the US book industry means that internet users will soon be able to choose from and buy millions of titles, many out of print, or read them on a page-by-page basis.The service invites comparison to the iTunes revolution, and was hailed by the internet search giant, the American Association of Publishers, and the Authors' Guild as a key moment in the evolution of electronic publishing.Google's co-founder, Sergey Brin, called the $125m deal a "great leap". Paul Aiken, executive director of the guild, called it "the biggest book deal in US publishing history". Once approved by a federal court in Manhattan, the deal will offer access to a library of millions of titles.After searching for books via Google, users will be offered free samples of chosen titles, with the option to buy more. Although it is as yet unclear how much books will cost to download, a royalty organisation, the Book Rights Registry, will take payments from Google (after it has taken a 37% cut) and distribute them to the authors and publishers. "This historic settlement is a win for everyone," said Richard Sarnoff, chairman of the publishers association. "It's hard work writing a book, and even harder work getting paid for it," said Roy Blount, president of the guild. "This deal makes good sense."The agreement mirrors the way that Apple's iTunes music store helped revolutionise the record industry when launched in 2003. Although the Google scheme will start in the US, Google's chief legal officer, David Drummond, said that it was working with rights holders, governments and organisations in other countries.To start with, the scheme will be targeted at universities and organisations which will pay large institutional subscriptions on behalf of students and researchers. But the deal also enables ordinary customers to download any of the 7m books already scanned into Google's database.UK publishers hoped the deal will be replicated. Simon &amp; Schuster UK's chief executive, Ian Chapman, said: "It's a significant agreement, but also has substance for the longer term - it's ground-breaking." Mark Le Fanu, of the Society of Authors, said: "What is so positive is that it recognises that authors and publishers must be involved when works in copyright are digitised and made available to the public, and usage must be paid for, while at the same time it promises to make the practicalities easily manageable for users." At The Bookseller, Neill Denny said the deal was good news, as it put more books in front of more people, and access ultimately created demand. "It's the long tail argument writ large, and I'm not only talking about books but also book content. If you want to read one chapter from an obscure textbook about Serbo-Croatian poetry in the 1920s, there might be five books on the subject, but 10 with chapters on the topic. This opens up the route to what you might describe as granulisation of book content ... tailored books. And for publishers it's a new revenue stream."The deal, subject to court approval, ends a lawsuit by authors and publishers against Google Book Search after it began scanning US books still in copyright.BackstoryGoogle began scanning and uploading books four years ago. However, unlike other countries where it scanned books fallen out of copyright, in America it scanned books that were simply out of print and made them available through its search engine - enraging publishers and authors. Three years ago, the Authors Guild, the Association of American Publishers and others filed a class action lawsuit against Google Book Search. As part of the agreement Google will compensate them at a minimum of $60 (&pound;37) per work, costing it up to $90m of the $125m deal.
Last year Microsoft was promising great advances in the way we use computers thanks to Vista, a new version of its Windows system. Just 18 months later, however - and after a barrage of criticism - the company yesterday unveiled its successor, Windows 7.The new system, which is unlikely to go on sale for at least a year, attempts to fix a number of problems with Vista and allow Microsoft to compete with a new generation of internet-based systems that are beginning to challenge its worldwide dominance.Showing off Windows 7 for the first time at a conference in Los Angeles, Microsoft's chief software architect, Ray Ozzie, unveiled a vision of the future that took in mobile phones and the web as well as ordinary desktop PCs. "We are bringing the best of the web to Windows, and the best of Windows to the web," said Ozzie, who took over the company's strategy from co-founder Bill Gates.At first glance, Windows 7 appears similar to Vista, but Microsoft promises a number of improvements. The system will be faster and easier to use, said Ozzie, and is set to include hi-tech bells and whistles such as support for a new generation of multitouch screens similar to Apple's iPhone.Ozzie also demonstrated a version of Microsoft Office that uses the internet to store files, allowing users to pick up their documents from any online computer."We've done a lot of work around how you manage the windows, how you launch programs and how you manage the windows of the programs you've launched," said Steven Sinofsky, senior vice president for Windows.However, it remains to be seen whether Windows 7 can erase the memory of Vista, which has proved one of the most difficult product launches in the history of the Seattle-based software company.Initially trumpeted as the most important product of the decade, Vista fell behind schedule and eventually received a lukewarm reception from users. The lack of momentum has left Microsoft struggling while rivals such as Google and Apple have made significant advances.
The proliferation of ever larger centralised databases is increasing the risk of people's personal data being lost or abused, the government's official privacy watchdog claims today.The warning from the information commissioner, Richard Thomas, comes as he discloses that reported data losses have soared in the past year.The number of data breaches - including lost laptops and memory sticks containing sensitive personal records  - reported to him has risen to 277 since the loss of 25 million child benefit records was disclosed nearly a year ago.The new figures  show that the information commissioner has recently launched investigations into 30 of the most serious cases. The 277 breaches include 80 reported by the private sector, 75 within the NHS and other health bodies, 28 reported by central government, 26 by local authorities and 47 by the rest of the public sector."It is alarming that despite high-profile data losses, the threat of enforcement action, a plethora of reports on data handling and clear information commission guidance, the flow of data breaches and sloppy information handling continues," Thomas says in a speech today.His warning follows an admission yesterday by the home secretary, Jacqui Smith, that the technical work on creating a giant centralised database of all email, text, phone and web traffic will go ahead despite the fact that ministers have decided to delay the legislation needed to set it up and instead put the proposal out to consultation.The information commissioner says that data losses have already led to fake credit card transactions, witnesses at risk of physical harm or intimidation, offenders at risk from vigilantes, falsified land registry records and mortgage fraud: "Addresses of service personnel, police and prison officers and battered women have also been exposed. Sometimes lives may be at risk."Thomas acknowledges that the rise in the number of breaches reported to him may be because of improved checks and audits as a welcome result of organisations taking data security more seriously.He says: "More laptops have  been encrypted and thousands of staff have been trained. But the number of breaches notified to us must still be well short of the total. How many PCs and laptops are junked with live data? How many staff do not tell their managers when they have lost a memory stick, laptop or disk?"The information commissioner warns that as new technology is harnessed to collect vast amounts of personal information, the risks of it being abused increase: "It is time for the penny to drop. The more databases that are set up and the more information exchanged from one place to another, the greater the risk of something going wrong."The more you centralise data collection, the greater the risk of multiple records going missing or wrong decisions about real people being made."His warning follows an admission yesterday by Jacqui Smith that the technical work on creating a giant centralised database of all email, text, phone and web traffic will go ahead, despite the fact that ministers have decided to delay the legislation needed to set it up and instead put the proposal out to consultation.The home secretary  yesterday defended the idea of a huge new database when she appeared before parliament's human rights committee, telling MPs and peers that 95% of security and organised crime investigations since 2004 had made considerable use of communications data.  "It is fundamentally important to ensure that convictions are secured. We face a fundamental change in the way that technology is going in relationship to communications data," she said, arguing that without such a database, one of the most important tools for law enforcement agencies was likely to be eroded.Her insistence that the technical work in Whitehall - known as the interception modernisation programme - will continue while consultation takes place on the project next year follows criticism from the director of public prosecutions, Sir Ken Macdonald, who warned that the government was in danger of "breaking the back of freedom" by the relentless pressure of a security state.The home secretary refused to respond to the DPP's criticism yesterday, apart from observing that he had not made such comments in cross-government talks on the project.&nbsp;
Just a few days ago Linden Lab chief executive Mark Kingdon wassaying that there was no credit crunch in Second Life, and boasting that one day in August had seen more than $L120m of economic activity inside the virtual world (that's more than $450,000, or £280,000).But perhaps he was a little optimistic.While most of the land you think of in Second Life is the sort that people can build huge towering virtual creations upon, Linden also offers so-called "OpenSpaces" - tracts of land that don't have much in them apart from grass, trees and fields. Basically it's a way to make your Second Life empire bigger without needing to build stuff on it: virtual estates that you can lord it over.But even open land has a cost - and Linden now says that people are hanging out too much in these areas, which in turn is using too much processing power, and as a resultthe price has had to go up. And not just up a little bit, but - as pointed out byEric Krangel- it's rising by 66% from $75 to $125 a month.(yes,a month. I still find it almost impossible to bend my brain around the sums of money people will pay for presence there)So while the evidence there was no credit crunchinsideSecond Life might have been solid, but it seems fairly obvious that a real-world recession or depression will have an impact on virtual spaces like this. And raising prices won't go down well with money conscious customers.Kingdon is effectively the head of Second Life's central bank, an analogy pointed out by Wired chiefChris Anderson at Pop!Techlast week. Is this a gamble that will pay off? Will Linden need to be prepared for a bailout of its own?
As if Fable 2, Fallout 3, LittleBigPlanet, Tomb Raider and my growing obsession with PES 2009's 2v2 online mode wasn't enough it's only 2 and a bit weeks till bloodyLich Kinglaunches. The World of Warcraft expansion – only the second since the game launched in Europe in 2005 – adds in a pile of new features but clearly the most exciting addition is a whole new landmass to explore/bash gnomes in. Hurrah. There's other stuff too but for me it's that journey into the unknown which is most appealing, especially as I've never had the time or patience to get really bogged down inendgame.To celebrate/hype Lich King's release publisher Blizzard has just announced that subscriptions have reached 11 million. Impressive then, although a combination of player fatigue and big name competitors likeWarhammer Onlineare likely to have slowed growth. Chance are, of course, that Lich King will see a surge in new and re-subscriptions. But how does Blizzard define a subscriber? The press release tells us:World of Warcraft subscribers include individuals who have paid a subscription fee or have an active prepaid card to play World of Warcraft, as well as those who have purchased the game and are within their free month of access. Internet Game Room players who have accessed the game over the last thirty days are also counted as subscribers. The above definition excludes all players under free promotional subscriptions, expired or cancelled subscriptions, and expired prepaid cards. Subscribers in licensees' territories are defined along the same rules.So, never played WoW but tempted by Lich King? Or is this expansion one for fans only?
Last year Microsoft was promising great advances in the way we use our computers thanks to Vista, a new version of its Windows system. Just 18 months later, however – and after a year of intense criticism – the company today unveiled its successor, Windows 7.The new system, which is unlikely to go on sale for at least another year, attempts to fix a number of problems with Vista and allow Microsoft to compete with a new generation of internet-based systems that are beginning to challenge its worldwide dominance.Showing off Windows 7 for the first time at the company's Professional Developers' Conference in Los Angeles, chief software architect Ray Ozzie unveiled a vision of the future that included not only your desktop PC, but also your mobile phone and the online world."We are bringing the best of the web to Windows, and the best of Windows to the web," said Ozzie, who took over the company's strategy from co-founder Bill Gates."From PC to the web to the phone, we are focused on enabling the creation of the next generation of user experiences that change the way we live, work and play."At first glance, Windows 7 appears similar to Vista, but Microsoft is promising a number of improvements in performance.The system will be faster and easier to use, Ozzie said, and is set to include hi-tech additions such as improved user interface, a new taskbar and support for a new generation of multitouch screens.The company announced new features to help protect privacy and manage your computer's health.Ozzie also demonstrated a new version of Microsoft Office which uses the internet to store files – allowing users to pick up their documents from any computer that is online.Developers at PDC 2008 are being offered a pre-beta build of Windows 7, as well as early copies of some of Microsoft's other products being launched at the conference – such as the new cloud computing system, Azure.The announcement marks the latest attempt by Microsoft to put the disappointing launch of Windows Vista behind it."We've done a lot of work around how you manage the windows, how you launch programs and how you manage the windows of the programs you've launched," said Steven Sinofsky, the senior vice-president for Windows. "It's all about personalisation and putting you in control of the PC."
My friend Dan thinks he's going to live forever. He's not religious, or one of those who believes thatextreme calorie restrictionwill let him live a thousand years (or perhaps just feel like he is). No, thinking it through logically Dan has decided that thetechnological singularityis likely to happen in his lifetime.According to this theory, popularised byVernor VingeandRay Kurzweilamong others, within the next 25 years humanity will create a superhuman intelligence, one that is capable of creating intelligences greater than its own. Humanity will no longer control the pace of technological development, which will rapidly advance to the point that our entire environment is directed by artificial intelligences.And then, Dan reckons, if these intelligences are friendly, we'll all be "uploaded" – our entire personalities will be copied into the vast memory banks of these AIs – and we'll live forever. More than that, we'll be able to spend time with our friends, we'll never experience pain or suffering again, all imaginable forms of entertainment will be available to us, along with some that can't be imagined at all. We'll be happy, stimulated, in pleasant company for all eternity.Of course, this is a remarkably similar promise to the assurances various religions have been giving for the past few thousand years. The technological singularity has been called theGeek Raptureor Rapture of the Nerds, referring to the belief held by some Christians that they will be taken up bodily into heaven to be with Jesus before the Day of Judgment. I'm fascinated by the similarities with religion; perhaps it's simply impossible for many people to comfortably accept that they really are going to die, that nothing will come afterwards, that there's no hope of rescue. If we can't believe in God, could technology be the way, the truth and the life?I'm reminded of the Doctor Who spin-off Torchwood, which is very robust in its constant assertion that there is nothing after death. In the very first episode, the team of alien-hunters uses a "resurrection glove" to momentarily bring a murdered man back to life. Asked what he saw after death, what there was to be seen, the murder victim replies, "Nothing. I saw nothing. Oh my god, there's nothing." And yet this statement was retrieved using this imaginary technology, the resurrection glove. One of the characters in Torchwood is immortal, others die and are returned to life using various pieces of alien gadgetry. Even for those who believe that they don't believe in life after death, it seems impossible to stop imagining technological solutions to the problem.Perhaps this is because of the vast array of problems technology can solve. We can speak to people on the other side of the world, fly through the air, carry the music of hundreds of orchestras with us in our pockets; why wouldn't technology one day enable us to live forever? Or perhaps it's simply a quirk of our brains;Scientific American magazineandartist Damien Hirstagree that the mind of a living being cannot conceive its own demise. Either way, I've agreed to try to get Dan into Jewish heaven if he puts in a good word for me with the Technological Singularity. That way we're both covered.
After a turbulent year for Microsoft, the technology giant is finally laying out its vision of the future – unveiling not only a new cloud computing system, but another version of Windows too.Yesterday the Seattle-based technology company took the lid off Azure, a project that aims to bring internet-based applications under its umbrella. And later today chief software architect Ray Ozzie is expected to reveal Windows 7, the successor to its current Vista operating system."In many ways this is a turning point for Microsoft," Ozzie told the audience at Microsoft's Professional Developers' Conference (PDC) in Los Angeles yesterday. "It's the transformation of our software, of our strategy and of our offerings across the board."Windows 7 has been talked about for some time, but today should see Ozzie show it off for the first time and elaborate on some of the product's details.Although no launch date has yet been confirmed, Microsoft executives have placed its probable arrival between late 2009 and early 2010.The company will be hoping that a new release can wrestle back some good feeling for Windows, which has been struggling since the release of Vista last year.Initially trumpeted as the most important software release of the decade when it was still in development, Vista fell behind schedule and saw several core technologies removed in order to help Microsoft release the product.Since then a string of compatibility issues and a lukewarm reception from users have left the company struggling to regain momentum – while at the same time it has seen rivals such as Google, Amazon and Apple make significant advances.That broad threat is thought to be partially responsible for Azure, the company's major entry into the so-called "cloud computing" market.That concept, which involves data and applications taken off people's machines and run over the internet, had been roundly criticised by Microsoft over the past few years. However, with rivals making serious progress and the company's Windows Live product filling only part of the gap, many industry observers were calling for Microsoft to change its mind."It's one of these times that the battleship turns around for Microsoft," Neil MacDonald of Gartner research said. "This is the direction that the industry is heading toward."Azure will allow developers to write Windows programs that run partially or wholly over the internet, and early test releases are being given to PDC attendees.Microsoft executives will be hoping that the two announcements will help them put a difficult period behind them. Earlier this year serious questions were raised about Microsoft's strategic plans after its protracted $44bn attempt to buy internet rival Yahoo was finally rejected by the California company.As well as the Yahoo debacle and difficulties regaining the front foot with Vista, the company also had to deal with the departure of co-founder and figurehead Bill Gates. That change, prompted by Gates' decision to focus on his philanthropic work, thrust long-time chief executive Steve Ballmer into the public eye.However, with PDC's audience of thousands of Windows developers it was not Ballmer but Ozzie – the veteran inventor of Lotus Notes who was recruited three years ago to succeed Gates as chief software architect – who took the limelight.
Linux has always been a financial disaster on the desktop, and asMark Shuttleworth-- the multimillionaire space tourist who bankrolls Ubuntu -- says in a conference call: "I don't think it will possible to make a lot of money, or maybe any money, selling the desktop."However, he is going to keep financing the operation for a while. He says,in CNet's report:"I have no objection to funding the business for another three to five years. I certainly have the patience to see us through any downturn. I think this downturn is going to be very good for Canonical... Canonical is not cash-flow positive, but our offering is very effective for those who want to pinch their pennies."Unfortunately, Ubuntu's main chance on the desktop has already come and gone. It would have been great if it had become the standard on netbooks. However, almost all the netbook manufacturers want to be able to tweak their adopted Linux and/or add their own software. Linux is now in decline on netbooks, and it looks as though it will never offer the same kind of comfortable, compatible cross-hardware platform as Windows. That kind of balkanisation, of course, ultimately destroyed Unix.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
A few months ago, Google executive Marissa Mayer made an impassioned - not to mention lengthy and weirdly complicated - argument over onGoogle's blogabout how much effort the company puts in to keeping its home page clean. It's sacred space, we were told: you can't add new stuff to it, because it makes the homepage all cluttered. And that's not Googley.The real idea was to explain that the company had decided to add a link to itsprivacy policieson the homepage - with the underlying implication being that privacy was so important it deserved space on that hallowed virtual wall.Except all that bluster means very little in the long run. After all, the company's supposed 28 word limit doesn't count promotional text - and we've had plenty of that recently. Indeed, just a few weeks after Mayer's post, we were suddenly treated to a big old link telling us to download Chrome,Google's new browser. It didn't last too long, but it was still there.And today I noticed another new addition: a linktrying to get users to buy the T-Mobile G1/ You remember, theGoogle-powered phone.That link adds nine words - a 33% increase in wordcount. Not very Googley, really, is it?
Today, Microsoft announced itscloud computing infrastructure-- basically a cloud-based version of Windows Server 2008 -- at PDC, and a couple of people wondered if they could do anything with it. Quick answer: downloadBluehoo, which "was born Friday 5th September 2008 at 2am and was the first non-Microsoft application running in Windows Azure."Download Bluehoo to your phone and it uses Bluetooth to discover "hoos" around you. You can check their profile, then it's up to you to start a conversation. You can, for example, go up to the blonde at the bar and ask if she can help you with your C# coding.Your little "hoo" (cartoon character) is blue if you're a boy and pink if you're a girl.Around 124,000 have signed up so far, but you are probably not close to one unless you are at PDC in Los Angeles. Or right in the centre of London whereSportsDois based.Sentient also developed SportsDo, "a GPS sports tracking system for your mobile phone which enables you to record your sporting activities while broadcasting live tracking stats to friends and family via the SportsDo web portal." It runs on Windows Mobile and Java phones, and PocketPCs.
It's not called Strata, it's called Azure, but otherwise, Microsoft has just put up apress release, which provides a quick guide to the highlights of the first session at the Professional Developers Conference in Los Angeles.If you're a bit of a masochist, you might have tried following the keynote aslive-bloggedby "a cabal of bloggers from across a variety of sites and pubs." It says:Commentary will be brought to you in real time by Todd Bishop, TechFlash; Ed Bott, ZDNet;  Kip Kniskern, Liveside; Rafael Rivera, Within Windows; Paul Thurrott, Windows Supersite; and Tom Warren, Neowin; and Long Zheng, Istartedsomething -- and yours truly.What, Windows commentaries from people who actually use Windows and know a bit about it? Not really an acceptable idea on the net, of course….
Video: Museum of the Moving ImageVast sums are being spent on television advertising for this year'sUS presidential elections, by the candidates and their parties, and by independent advocacy groups. If you live in a "swing state", you may have seen most of them all too often. If you live outside the US, you may not have seen them at all. Either way, once the election is over, you probably don't expect to see them again…But times have changed. Thanks to the internet, you can now watch almost any of these adverts at any time – more than 300 of them, going right back to 1952. And you can do it without going to YouTube.The Museum of the Moving Image, New York,has collected more than 50 years of American political advertising at a single site:The Living Room Candidate. You can start with Disney's black and white cartoon for Dwight D Eisenhower and work your way through to Barack Obama.You can watch the adverts for John F Kennedy, Richard Nixon, Ronald Reagan, George Bush, Bill Clinton, and George W Bush – winners all. You can also see Barry Goldwater, Hubert Humphrey, George McGovern, Walter Mondale, Michael Dukakis, Ross Perot, Bob Dole and others who might have you saying "Who?"To put the ads in context, the site provides a brief summary of each campaign and the state of the nation. You also get a coloured map of the US to show the final result.Each advert also comes with a list of credits, a transcript and links to related ads. You can save or share ads, and create your own playlist. This makes the site a valuable educational resource, and so far eight lesson plans have been provided. Topics include Understanding the Language of Political Ads, and Children in Political Ads (political ads tend to feature cute kids).There are also selections of ads on various themes, such as civil rights, taxes, welfare and war.Browsing the site is fascinating. Old ads give you some instant insight into what America was like at the time, and tell you as much about the development of TV advertising as they do about politics. For example, the development from Eisenhower reading cue cards in 1952 to Ronald Reagan, a consummate actor, is remarkable. The political messages, however, remain much the same.When so many candidates are sold like cornflakes, John F Kennedy's use of a more documentary type of approach also stands out.One not to miss is theLyndon Baines Johnson ad from 1964, made by the Madison Avenue advertising agency Doyle Dane Bernbach. This segues from a cute little girl counting as she picks the petals off a daisy to the countdown to a nuclear explosion. The voiceover says: "We must either love each other or we must die." It's a hugely powerful ad. It was only shown once: once was enough.The Living Room Candidate site was started in 2000, and it gets better every year. Especially every four years.
Just a reminder that this Thursday sees the start of the 2008GameCity festivalin glorious Nottingham. There's absolutely masses going on, including talks from David Braben, the LittleBigPlanet chaps, Guitar Hero creators, Harmonix, and - live from his office via the magic of satellite, David Jaffe.But most importantly, Saturday night will see theGamesblog videogame quiz, taking place in one of the city's finest curry houses,Mogal-e-Azam. Teams of up to six people can enter - I'm still working on the prizes, but hey, it'll be huge fun taking part. As with our pub quiz at the Develop conference this summer, there will be a mix of trivia questions and creative rounds, the latter involving plasticine.It would begreatto have as many Gamesblog readers as possible in attendance. The event starts at 6pm, and should keep you occupied for a couple of hours. Then you'll be able to head off to the GameCity closing party with music from Press Play On Tape and Powerplay!So, any takers?
The netbook designation was always a bit tricky, and it's hard to tell where the "under $600"Dell Inspiron Mini 12fits in. As the name suggests, it has a 12.1 inch WXGA (1280 x 800) screen, where netbooks normally stop at 10.2 inches. However, like smaller netbooks, it has a cheap Intel Atom processor -- which is fine, but not the sort of thing you'd want in a workhorse notebook PC. The Mini 12 also has a 60GB or 80GB hard drive instead of a solid-state Flash drive, but that's needed to run Windows Vista. Dell says:Like its counterpart the Inspiron Mini 9, the Mini 12 is ideal for teens, tweens, travelers and "Tweeters" to surf the Web, chat with friends, blog, stream content, upload photos or enjoy online videos, music and games.APC magazinein Australia got a machine from Michael Dell and has a world first comprehensive review. APC points out that that the Mini 12 uses a Z-series Atom processor (either the Z520 or Z530) and Intel's low-power Poulsbo chipset. Which is clever, but has the major drawback that it limits you to 1GB of memory.Laptop magazinehas played with a prototype and says:At less than an inch thick (according to Dell its .92-inches at its thinnest point) and weighing 2.7 pounds, I couldn't help but look at the Mini 12 and think of $1,500+ ultraportables like the MacBook Air and Voodoo Envy 133.The Inspiron Mini 12 was just about the same thickness as the Lenovo ThinkPad X200 I had brought to the meeting, and only a bit thicker than the .76-inch MacBook Air that one of the meeting attendees had on the table (see the photos in the gallery below). But that extra girth buys the Dell more ports -- 3 USB, full-size VGA out, a 3-in-1 card reader, along with a mic and headphone jack.Dell is launching the system in Japan, so it runs Windows Vista Home Basic, but as APC points out, the Windows Experience "rating of 1.0 doesn't give us much confidence". (You really shouldn't buy a notebook PC unless it rates better than 3.0.) Later, however, Dell also expects to offer the choice of Windows XP or Ubuntu.The Mini 12 isn't the only netbook to run Vista -- the HP 2133 does, too -- but it would be interesting to know the details of that particular deal. Vista usually costs much more than the netbook version of XP, making it hard to hit netbook-style price points. Maybe if you're shipping more than 10 million units a quarter, like Dell and HP, the volume discounts make Vista more affordable....Update: Dell UK says "The Inspiron Mini 12 will be available in UK, Ireland, France, Germany and Austria in mid-November via regional www.dell.com stores.  Ubuntu and Windows XP operating systems also will be available before the end of the year, and availability will also expand to Spain and Italy." So it wil start with Vista preloaded.
I was on holiday last week and a good job too. As well as Fable 2 - which despite the most useless in-game map ever is a fantastic achievement - I received Fallout 3, Dead Space, Far Cry 2, Quantum of Solace (or COD4 Bond), PES 2009 PC,Disaster: Day of Crisis, Spiderman and a host of me-too Wii sports and DS brain titles. Phew. And this is before LittleBigPlanet, Gears of War 2, WoW: Lich King, Tomb Raider and the rest of the pre-Christmas biggies arrive next month. Now obviously I'm not complaining - there is some good stuff here (Fallout 3, Dead Space and Far Cry 2 in particular). But how do publishers expect gamers to keep up?Clearly retail trade-in is going to be key here. But wouldn't, say,Dead Space, have done better in August when the release schedule was, erm, dead. Yes, I know the arguments against summer releases - holidays, sunshine etc - but surely a new IP like Dead Space would have benefited from the word of mouth from being one of the few new games available? The chances are it will now get lost in the Fable/Fallout rush. Or maybe I'm wrong? Do you enjoy the rush of new games in October and November or would you rather things were spaced out?
Monday's oddly up for it edition of Chatterbox
If you want to track the zeitgeist, then Google Trends (google.com/trends) is a good place to start. Type in a search phrase and you get a graph showing how its popularity with Google searchers has varied. 'Sarah Palin' first appears in February, but queries about her bump along the floor until mid-August, when there's a sudden spike, and she's been up and down ever since.An announcement from Amazon last week prompted your columnist to reach for Google Trends in a different context. The online retailer revealed that its 'cloud computing' service - which enables customers to have their IT services provided by Amazon on a pay-for-use basis, rather than buying all the hardware and software themselves - is ready for primetime. Among other things, Amazon Web Services now offer support for Microsoft's Windows and SQL Server, a 'service level agreement' that guarantees 99.95 per cent uptime, and four features designed to appeal to corporate IT managers: a virtual console for managing virtual servers; load balancing; automatic scaling; and intensive monitoring of the services for which one is paying.Google Trends reveals that 'cloud computing' first starts to figure in queries in 2007. Interest grew slowly until April this year, whenSalesforce.comannounced a deal with Google. There's another peak in July, when Yahoo, Intel and HP announced they were collaborating with several universities to set up cloud computing labs. This week's news from Amazon will doubtless produce an even bigger spike in Google searches by people wondering what's going on.If you believe the enthusiasts, it's nothing less than our old friend, the paradigm shift. We're moving, they say, from a world in which every organisation provided its own IT services - complete with data centres, hardware, software, network and support staff - to one in which companies outsource most of their IT requirements to operations such as Amazon Web Services and access them via the internet. This is what Nicholas Carr, a prominent commentator, calls 'The Big Switch' - the title of his recent book on the topic. His analogy is that of electricity generation: once, most companies had their own generators; now they buy electricity from big utilities. Computing, he says, is heading in the same direction, and for many of the same reasons.What reasons? Werner Vogels, Amazon's chief technology officer, says: 'These are times when many companies are focusing on their IT operations and asking themselves how they can operate more efficiently. This is not the first time we have gone through this cycle, but now there are tools available that help them to manage their IT budgets very differently. By using infrastructure as a service, basic IT costs are moved from a capital expense to a variable cost, building clearer relationships between expenditures and revenue-generating activities.'Well, he would say that, wouldn't he? But Vogels claims that Amazon is seeing a surge of interest - 'from young businesses to Fortune 500 enterprises, from research labs to television networks' - in moving to the cloud to get a better grip on costs. And he clearly thinks that an economic downturn will stimulate companies to ask awkward questions about the cost-effectiveness of maintaining their own IT services.Those questions are long overdue. I recently saw an interesting presentation by Irving Wladawsky-Berger, for many years an eminent figure in IBM. One slide showed how the costs of providing IT services have changed since 1996. Over that period, the proportion of cost attributable to hardware has fallen appreciably, as you'd expect. But the percentage taken by 'server management and administration' has risen from 20 per cent in 1996 to nearly 60 per cent today. And energy costs have gone from a negligible proportion in 1996 to about 16 per cent today.To corporate executives facing recession, these numbers will speak for themselves. As indeed does the title of Wladawsky-Berger's presentation: 'Cloud computing and the Coming IT Cambrian Explosion'. If you're wondering what that geological reference implies, check it out on Wikipedia (http://bit.ly/2I5iyI): the Cambrian period triggered a staggering increase in the pace of evolutionary development, as measured by the rate at which species appeared and disappeared. For some of our most established IT companies, Vogels's cloud may have a darker lining than they expect.john.naughton@observer.co.uk
Airstream 684&pound;45,740Total length:28ftBerths:4Good for:Free spiritsBad for:Free loadersWe're the best of friends/Insisting that the world keep turning our way/And our way is on the road again... Willie Nelson's cracked voice fills the car and we gustily join him for the chorus... And we just can't wait to get on the road again. We're heading to the north Norfolk coast for a week of big beaches and even bigger skies. As usual, we'll be staying in a rented property. But this one is a little different. It has wheels rather than foundations, and is built for a life on the road.With their riveted aluminium walls, sleek aerodynamic shape and futuristic fuselage bodies, Airstream 'travel trailers' - the word caravan seems a little low-rent when applied to these polished beauties - have long been an essential ingredient of the all-American experience, acting like vast magnets for anyone with a passion for aesthetic perfection. People who'd never be seen dead in a run-of-the-mill caravan - the 'white goods' of the highway - see the Airstream as something different. And whether it's the iconic design or the colossal price tag, there's no doubt 'Streaming' is something James Dean would have done, while caravanning is for the likes of Alan Partridge.The Airstream dream started back in 1929 when Wally Byam bought a Model T Ford chassis, put a platform on the back and pitched a tent on that. His wife was nonplussed by his idea of comfort and so he built her a tear-drop shaped metal structure. Neighbours expressed interest and the silver bullet's long journey began. Wally christened his creation the Airstream because they cruised down the road 'like a stream of air'. Since then, thousands of Airstreams have been sold, but almost all in America. Recently, however, Airstream has developed the '684' which is narrower and lighter, and has been adapted to the towing capabilities of our wimpy European cars - though it still comes in at two tonnes and 28 feet in length.Like its American cousins, the 684 is made to the highest possible standard. Incredibly, an estimated 70 per cent of all Airstreams ever built are still on the road, which tells you as much about their build quality as the pride in ownership they evoke.The retro, aircraft styling of the exterior is in stark contrast to the modern interior. Gone is the smoked-glass, wobbly plastic shelving and wall-to-wall beige colour schemes of today's caravans. Instead you'll find tasteful, dark-stained wood panelling, leather seating, oval-shaped sinks, backlit storage compartments and splashes of lime green and orange. It's a mobile boutique-hotel room. On top of that there's central heating, solar panels, a satellite link and even a reversing camera. When it comes to the nitty-gritty, Airstream is no different to the other vans out there. There is a chemical loo and a waste-water collector, and the van has to be hooked up to an electricity supply - but it's just enough hands-on footering to remind you that it really is great outdoors.For more information about Airstream trailers, go toairstreameurope.co.uk. To rent an Airstream, visitairstream-rentals.co.uk
Microsoft doesn't often release updates outside the normal monthly cycle, but it released one this week. It has patched a vulnerability in the way the Server service handles a particular RPC (Remote Procedure Call) request. TheMicrosoft Security Bulletin MS08-067says:This security update is rated Critical for all supported editions of Microsoft Windows 2000, Windows XP, Windows Server 2003, and rated Important for all supported editions of Windows Vista and Windows Server 2008.The fix arrives as KB958644, so you might want to check to see if you have it installed yet. (I mention this because I didn't.) If not, you can pick it up from Windows Update in the usual way.The key word in Microsoft's description is "wormable". The vulnerability has been picked up by catching attempts to exploit it, but there's no evidence yet of any sort of large scale attack. It looks as though Microsoft is getting the fix out to preclude something like theSasser worm, which had quite an impact in 2004.TheSunbelt Security blogcomments:It is not a light thing. The urgency is quite real – unpatched, you've got the spectre of another SQL Slammer, Code Red type of scenario if the malware writers create a worm. The other issue with this patch is that it affects a broad number of systems (XP, Windows 2000 and 2003 – the Vista/2008 platform isn't at the same level of risk).It is an extraordinary event that pushes Microsoft to do an out-of-band update. This is a big deal for them – each update is tested on a vast number of machines. It underscores the potential seriousness of this vulnerability.
On the Windows Vista blog, Microsoft'sMike Nashsays:As a part of the development and testing process, we're going to start by providing a small group of Technology Adoption Program customers with Windows Vista SP2 Beta for evaluation next Wednesday, October 29. The final release date for Windows Vista SP2 will be based on quality. So we'll track customer and partner feedback from the beta program before setting a final date for the release.Continuous improvements since the launch have removed most of the original "issues" with Vista, but SP2 is improving functionality. New features include Windows Search 4.0 (which you can download anyway), the Bluetooth 2.1 Feature Pack and the "ability to record data on to Blu-ray media natively in Windows Vista."Nash also mentionsexFAT, the file system from Windows CE that was added in Vista SP1. This is basically FAT64, and can address up to 16 exabytes. Of course, it will be some time before affordable thumb drives and external hard drives get to 16 exabytes, but you still might like being able to store files that are larger than the 4GB allowed in FAT32. (An exabyte is roughly a billion gigabytes.)The single SP2 will cover both Windows Vista (client) and Windows Server 2008 (server) versions, since these are now based on the same kernel.
If you've ever had a demanding lover, you'll know what it's like to drive the new Volvo XC60. If it could talk, the XC60 would say, in a snooty voice: "Not like that. Faster! Slower! Don't put your fingers there! Oh you're useless, let me do it!" It's like Rowan Pelling, with a chunkier rear end, functioning airbags and GPS as standard.As I join the Valencia rush hour, lights are flashing and beeps beeping all over the car. I'm doing everything wrong. The driver-side wing mirror light tells me there is a car in my blind spot. A red light reflected on to the windscreen indicates the car thinks I'm too close to the vehicle ahead. The beeping has been activated because the car thinks I am poised to plunge over a Spanish precipice.I'm not up to driving this car. There's no handbrake! No ignition key! There is (this is insane) a remote control for the GPS that your smartarse kids in the back can use to countermand your programming. Then there's the adaptive cruise control which has been explained to me three times, but I still don't understand.This isn't Volvo's fault. I am an inadequate driver. The last time I owned a car was a year ago. My partner found herself in the street, daughter in one arm, shopping in the other, and a space where our motor should have been. "It'll cost you &pound;250 to get it back," said the not-unpleasant car pound functionary. The car was worth &pound;50, so we didn't bother. Now they're letting me drive a crossover 4x4 worth at least &pound;25,000. Fools!Bruce Springsteen's Born To Run comes unbidden over the stereo. The soundtrack is laughably inappropriate. While Asbury Park's highways are surely filled with broken heroes on a last-chance power drive, Valencia's boulevards today teem with thin-soled motoring correspondents test-driving the safest Volvo yet manufactured. We roll in brown and green hues to a nice lunch in the hills. Male car-junket veterans complain that Volvo's nannying motoring philosophy is anathema: they got into this game to treat the car as they dream of treating their women. They don't want to drive her sensibly to a tapas-based buffet according to Swedish safety parameters, but slap her around the hairpins. The XC60 won't stand for such nonsense. The Valencia air is thick with auto-sexual frustration.XC60's USP, the City Safety, is what Volvo's engineers yearn to tell us about. If you're nose-to-tailing it in heavy traffic at speeds of up to 30kph and you drift off into your thoughts (how nice it would be to have a Victoria sponge for tea), failing to brake before hitting the car ahead, the City Safety will brake for you. We test this facility in a playground. Egbert Bakker, the Dutchman in charge of Vehicle Dynamics, challenges me not to brake as I accelerate towards an inflatable simulacrum of a car. I accept. The car stops itself just short of collision. Per-Ola Fuxin, Volvo's City Safety expert, tells me this feature has been responsible for up to 30% insurance premium reductions in Germany and Sweden.Volvo, I learn, envisages an accident-free future in which cars will communicate with each other, rendering drivers all but redundant. The XC60, then, isn't so much a car as a stage on the highway to transhumanism. Ultimately, the main problem with the XC60 is me. This Volvo would do better if I vacated the driver's seat and allowed it to sort itself out. So I do. The feeling of relief, no doubt, is mutual.
Since the dawn of time, mankind has searched for the meaning of life and existence. Who are we? Why are we here? Where are we going? Tarvuism is a new religion that not only seeks to answer these questions but, in doing so, also allows you to learn how to speak to an octopus. In the information film on the front page we meet many people who have joined this new religious movement, including one man who has had his life transformed. "Six months ago I was in prison for arson," he says. "And then someone gave me a [Tarvu] brochure. Now I'm a priestmunty at my local chabbernaggle." People interested in the creation of "Universe A and Universe B" will find this site interesting as may fans of Look Around You, Peter Serafinowicz and Robert Popper. Isn't it about time you said "Hebbo" to Tarvuism?
Remember spending last summer, in the run up to the release of The Simpsons Movie, merrily wasting time Simpsonising yourself and your workmates? The clever artist behind this blog appears intent on transforming his favourite icons of movies, TV and comic books in similar style. Currently he's working his way through Marvel Comics Month in which The Thing, Nightcrawler, Doctor Doom and friends are brought down to earth with the trademark Simpsons-style yellow pallor and overbite. He's also employed the same technique to James Bond and Heroes, which makes you wonder, could a whole non-Simpsons movie be Simpsonised?
Set in a by-the-numbers near-future during a climate change-motivated civil war, you play a generic space marine who is actually called Jet Brody. If Fracture's setting wasn't derivative enough for you, its third person shooting action takes more than inspiration from Gears Of War and its rechargeable shields, while the heroic score and majestic sci-fi architecture are straight out of Halo. Its central conceit is the ability to raise and lower terrain using a weapon called the Entrencher so that during fights you can make cover or destroy other people's and open blocked paths. Unfortunately, use of the Entrencher is so clearly and patronisingly flagged that it denies you even the small feeling of victory associated with working stuff out for yourself. Battles are tiresome chores, while many checkpoints are far enough apart to force you to repeat those chores until you despise this game in an active and possibly unhealthy way.• LucasArts, &pound;49.99
