They say games are getting harder and harder to separate from reality, but this may be taking it a little too far.In a report on BBC news last week, a reference to the UN's Security Council was accompanied by a large graphic on the screen next to presenter Sophie Raworth. The problem is, the UNSC icon depicted had nothing to do with the Security Council – in fact, it was the badge of the United Nations Space Command, the military agency depicted in space shooter Halo.Viewers quickly spotted the error and the icon was replaced in later editions of the bulletin. A spokesman said: "BBC News makes every effort to ensure the accuracy of all images broadcast. However, very occasionally mistakes do happen. Unfortunately an incorrect logo was used during a segment on last week's News at One bulletin and we apologise to viewers for the mistake."But of course, YouTube has a clip of the original report:The channel can at least "console" itself with news that it is not alone. Asdiscovered by tech site Venture Beat, the CanAsian Times has the same logo in its own story about the Security Council.
Research in Motion, the maker of BlackBerry phones, is preparing for a major restructuring that could cut up to 6,000 jobs from its worldwide workforce of 16,500.Canada's Globe and Mail newspaper cited several people close to the company saying that at least 2,000 jobs would go in the next round of layoffs that was planned for around Friday 1 June – a day before the smartphone maker's first financial quarter ends – though some expect the announcement even earlier.One source close to the company told Reuters that the impending layoffs could hit as many as 6,000 and affect legal, marketing, sales, operations, and HR."The strategic question is: are you accelerating into a better future or shrinking to a niche operation?" said the source, who declined to be identified.The job cuts come on top of 2,000 that were announced last July – reducing the workforce by 11%.A string of high-level employees have departed RIM recently, including global head of sales Patrick Spence, who is set to take a senior job at networked audio company Sonos.Several sources close to the company told Reuters that RIM had been letting more junior staff go for several months in what have come to be known internally as "Goodbye Thursdays", because the cuts typically come on that day of the week.A RIM spokeswoman declined to comment on the report but  pointed to comments that new chief executive Thorsten Heins and chief financial officer Brian Bidulka made on RIM's last earnings call about plans to streamline operations and save $1bn in the financial year.RIM is struggling with what looks like a perfect storm of problems.The BBX 10 software to power a new generation of BlackBerry phones is not expected until autumn, while existing users are abandoning BlackBerry phones for models from Apple or those using Android more quickly than new ones are coming aboard.Added to that, price competition – also driven by the burgeoning number of Android smartphones – is eroding the prices that RIM can charge, putting extra pressure on its finances.And its PlayBook tablet, launched a year ago, has sold slowly but cost the company billions first in inventory and then in writedowns.As a result, RIM's stock has plummeted. Last week it touched an eight-year low of $10.59 (£6.75). It recovered to $11 by the end of the week, but the company's value has dropped steadily from $60 in February 2011.RIM reported a fourth-quarter loss in March, when the new chief executive announced the initial steps in a strategic overhaul. Heins took over from longtime co-CEOs Mike Lazaridis and Jim Balsillie in January.Horace Dediu, who runs the consultancy Asmyco, has repeatedly observed that mobile phone companies that fall into loss – even once – never recover their former position.Herestated the point on Sunday night on Twitter, pointing out that Motorola Mobility had become the latest to fulfil that trend after being acquired by Google.In March the BlackBerry maker announced a $125m quarterly loss as it saw revenues fall by almost 25% (and drop in real terms by $1bn) to $4.19bn, below even pessimistic Wall Street analyst forecasts.
While Max Payne 3 has its detractors (andwe're not among them), there's one thing most gamers agree on about Rockstar's latest slab of edgy interactive mayhem: the music is awesome. Over several months of intense sessions, US noise punk merchants Health recorded around six hours of new material for the score, producing a soundscape every bit as enthralling and messed up as the onscreen action.This perfectly pitched collaboration isn't merely a one-off novelty – it could well hint at both the future of game music and a whole new creative avenue for musicians. In the past, building a game soundtrack was usually all about licensing a selection of chart hits, or paying a composer to bash out an identikit orchestral score.But we're now entering an era of close co-operation; game developers are employing musicians who love games and understand them. And in return, music is becoming part of the design process."We like working with bands and musicians who aren't strictly composers," says Ivan Pavlovich, Rockstar's soundtrack supervisor. "They bring a different perspective and I think we learn from each other. I've been a fan of soundtracks for a long time, but I feel like the whole genre was getting boring."You had these composers sitting in their studios with orchestral software ... it all started to bleed together. I can't tell the difference between movie and game soundtracks anymore. To me, Health has taken the whole concept of the score and given it six big blows to the ribs. It's very exciting."The key challenge for musicians is to understand and exploit the non-linear nature of game music. Unlike a movie score, the audio has to be able to respond in real-time to the movements of the player, so it is usually chopped up into separate instrumental tracks and stems, which are automatically combined during play to match the on-screen action.In Max Payne 3, Health's distorted guitar feedback and pummelling drums swell to savage crescendos as soon as any shootout starts, like some bloody post-punk opera."Everything has to loop indefinitely," says the band's bassist and resident gamer, John Famiglietti. "We recorded it all while watching video captures of gameplay – everything we did we put up against that footage and said, is this working? Does it make sense?"We were inspired by the mood of each level, and where the story was going. And we've learned a lot from this. We had to come up with so much music! Our sound is based around tricks, effects and any weird stuff we can find, and we discovered a ton more while doing this game."Rockstar isn't alone in handing over a whole soundtrack to one artist, capable of truly understanding and interpreting the action. For Halo 4, developer 343 Industries called in Massive Attack producer and film soundtrack composer Neil Davidge to totally redesign the game's distinctive choral soundtrack."As a fan of the game, I didn't want to revolutionalise the sound of Halo, I wanted to progress it, to take it to places it hadn't been before" he says. "I've got alotof processing devices in my studio – I delve through huge libraries of raw, organic sounds and process those, record them, process them again – I've been doing that for many years with Massive Attack, but this experience has been amazing, it's incredibly inspiring."As with Max Payne 3, this was all about using music not as an accompaniment to story, but as a story-telling device in its own right."With a film score you can cue music to specific moments, the way a character looks away, a shift in the eyes," says Davidge. "You'd also be scoring to the subtext of what's being said – the hidden intent.With a game, because there's a lot of chasing around, a lot of action, it's often difficult to tie the different aspects of the plot together; music can play a hugely important role in helping the player understand the journey they're on, too feel that journey, so that the story hangs together and is less disjointed. It isn't just about scoring the movie snippets between each mission, the musicisthe undercurrent, it illustrates the emotional context of the scene."And apparently, the Halo 4 score was so effective that it ended up feeding into the game design process. As Davidge explains: "The creative director Josh Holmes told me he had a particular vision of one scene but on listening to the music he found that it created a different picture for him, it helped him flesh it out, emotionally."I don't think the music has changed the course of the game, but it has had a significant influence, it's helped the designers reach a certain depth with the characters – now they have a device to illustrate what's going on in the characters' minds. There are some things that you want to communicate that are too elusive to convey through play."However, perhaps the most interesting developments are coming out of the indie sector, where small studios are teaming up with offbeat musicians to work on collaborative, highly experimental projects.Award-winning Czech studio Amanita Design has just released Botanicula, a beautiful adventure game, following the tiny inhabitants of an enchanted tree. Like an old Oliver Postgate show, the game uses traditional hand-drawing and animation techniques — and to accentuate this retrospective feel, the designers worked with local avant garde folk band Dva, who provided a rich, earthy score using traditional Eastern European instruments, as well as toy pianos and kitchen pots."Their music is cheerful, funny, a little weird and fits perfectly to the game," says Amanita founder, Jakub Dvosky. "The same is true for the sound effects – they generated most of them with their own voices which make the animations come alive and added to the humour."We didn't need to explain anything to them because the band are our friends, they knew exactly what the game needed."And while game designers get highly evocative scores out of these close collaborations, the musicians get a whole new medium to explore; a new way to think about music.Composer Austin Wintory was involved from the very beginning with the recently released PlayStation 3 game Journey, a mystical, highly artistic experience, which traces a mute character's quest to the top of a mountain. It's a metaphor for life and re-birth, and Wintory used instrumentation to reflect and explore this."In the Journey soundtrack, I wanted the cello part to undergo a metamorphosis that exactly mirrors what the player is going through. The cello IS the player," he says."The instrument starts off immersed in a sea of electronic sound, where it hasn't really discovered itself, and it gradually starts to emerge, eventually transcending and then disappearing back into the fabric, except the fabric has now become a full orchestra — it's the cello times a million, a community of similar souls."The cello is starting in a world where it doesn't know its place then eventually finds a place and surrenders itself to that. It's a metaphorical, musical parallel to the game."Most intriguing perhaps is the emerging generation of game designers who also make music. Alec Holowka, for example, is the Canadian programmer and musician who co-wrote the award-winning action adventure game Aquaria.And Rich Vreeland – aka Disaterpeace – provided the music for the astonishing Xbox 360 title, Fez, but has also build his own audio games, including January, billed as "an experiment in algorithmic music generation"."I think developers are realising the potential of having musical people deeply involved," says Vreeland. "Or even better, the developers already happen to be musicians. In recent years, with the rise of independent games and crowd funding there has been more of an opportunity for game makers to truly make the games they want, and I think with this comes a passion and a freedom to try lots of things."There's a commercial angle, of course. Rockstar has now released the Max Payne 3 soundtrack as a digital album, just as Sony did with Journey (and incredibly it found its way into the iTunes top 10 in more than 20 countries) – in some ways, it's an evolution of the business model that sprang up around the Guitar Hero and Rock Band titles, with musicians rushing to get their new releases into the download packs.But game scores are also about creativity and exploration – and the best of them are created specifically for the experience taking place on the screen by musicians who understand the medium."We all want to make music that connects with people," says Wintory. "It doesn't matter if that's on a stage or a film or in a game. I don't think someone should aspire to score films if you don't love films and you really need to be a gamer to score games."To be able to really make something that's intimately attached to the game experience means writing with an understanding of those mechanics. You have to speak the language of game design … but, you know, good music is good music."Davidge agrees. He certainly sees a future in which game music becomes a whole new form of expression."It's a very exciting process to create something like this," he says. "There are a lot of opportunities out there to experiment. The games industry is becoming far more open – it's caught up with the film industry in terms of the level of quality it aspires to."It's possible to do something with integrity, with heart, with passion in a video game. It's not just about shooting and car chases any more."
Mobilize launched its mobile shopping appShop Scan Saveearlier in May. In our fourth Apps Pitch, the company says why it hopes the app will be a winner.What is your app called and what does it do?Our new app is called Shop Scan Save. The app is free, and it enables members to earn and redeem rewards and offers from 22,500 stores nationwide that have the PayPoint system. This includes retailers such as Spar, Co-op, Costcutter, Londis, Nisa as well as thousands of independent convenience stores. The nearest PayPoint-supporting shops can be located using the app's Store Finder feature.Through the app, customers will be able to save up to £250 per year on their convenience store shopping. Right now there are deals on KitKat, Lenor, Ariel, Lurpak, Cravendale, Jack Daniels, Southern Comfort, and Bacardi Breezer, with hundreds more products being added.What devices is it on, and what are your plans?Right now, the free Shop Scan Save app is available for iPhone, iPad, iPod touch and Android. We may look to develop it for Windows-based smartphones and BlackBerry in the near future.What's the business model and why have you chosen it?The app is free to download from Google Play and Apple's App Store and our business model is to charge brands for using the app to send offers to members.Our technology will help develop the way loyalty and vouchering schemes work in the convenience sector and in the wider retail sector. Smartphones are now owned by more than 50% of the UK population, and the mobile phone has joined keys and wallet as the third thing that everyone takes with them when they leave home.There are three main benefits to using Shop Scan Save. Shoppers get simple access to a discount and loyalty scheme without having to carry coupons or cards - just look at the number of loyalty cards bulging in your wallet to see how convenient this is.Secondly, brands wishing to engage with customers via mobile can communicate personalised offers based on previous purchasing patterns, or even location.Finally, retailers no longer need to collect coupons, post them to a redemption house and wait for a cheque to arrive sometime in the future. Brands and retailers save the physical cost of printing cards and coupons.What's innovative about the app – what sets it apart?Shop Scan Save is the first national smartphone-based savings scheme for the convenience sector. It is a free app which can save substantial amounts of money for users in a hassle-free way.What sets it apart from other mobile vouchering schemes on the market is that only a single ID scan is needed to redeem multiple offers at the point of sale. Data capture on redemptions means Shop Scan Save can deliver personalised and relevant offers. Also store owners are reimbursed automatically for the discounts – normally within six working days.What's the competition – who else is out there in this area?No one else offers a scheme with the simplicity of a single ID scan on the phone to redeem offers and benefits. Others require multiple scans – one for each offer – which can be very tedious for the consumer while most voucher code sites fail to provide this level of data capture and personalisation that mobile can deliver.What are your future plans for the app?We are getting more and more attractive offers from leading brands in the app – this will increase the savings that members will earn. We are also exploring the addition of brand content into the app with some of our key partners. Finally, we are also planning a unique series of offers which use location and redemption of vouchers to generate additional rewards.Tell us more about the company behind itMobilize works with leading retailers and brands to help them engage with their customers via mobile, and drive loyalty. Our head office is in the UK, and we have offices in Miami and Stockholm. We have also recently launched a mobile loyalty &amp; vouchering scheme for the outdoor retailer, GO Outdoors.
Arcade-style racing games, although perennially popular, have been surprisingly thin on the ground in recent times, so credit is due to Codemasters for muscling into that current gap in the market with DiRT Showdown.Mind you, given the Warwickshire company's recent announcement that it will now concentrate solely on racing games, and the fact that its existing driving franchises are sim-style motorsport games, you could be forgiven for suspecting that it owes its existence to a desire to plug a gap in Codemasters' portfolio. However, all inklings that DiRT Showdown might primarily have been conceived by marketing types are dispelled when you play it. It's simply too classy.Not that the prevailing atmosphere, when you fire it up, is exactly one of classiness – it's loud, brash and in-your-face, with nods to both MotorStorm (thanks to the Burning Man-style backdrops to each event and the availability of nitrous-style boosts) and banger-racing.The MC and commentator Christian Stevenson's voice will be familiar to attendees of extreme sports events (you'll be able to hear him at the mountain biking during the Olympics), as will the sponsors' stickers that adorn the cars. Even though those cars include vans, hearses and pick-up trucks. The music, too, is great – a mix of rock, dance and hip-hop, all with an appropriately furious tempo.At first, the sheer number of race modes DiRT Showdown throws at you induces a certain amount of bewilderment. There are straight races; Eliminators in which the last driver, at timed points, is taken out (and the eliminated cars are left as burnt-out obstacles); Eight-ball races around figure-of-eight tracks with crossovers; Rampages in which you're awarded points for ramming opponents (and the real booty comes from destroying stricken cars); Knockouts, which are Rampages on raised platforms, and knocking opponents off brings extra rewards; and Domination races that place a premium on achieving the fastest time on each sector of each lap.Plus rally-driver Ken Block's Hoonigan mode from recent iterations of DiRT, in which you must smash blocks, pull of doughnuts, drift and catch air, features strongly – this time with the cars' handling dialled down to make it much more forgiving.What really surprises you is how well what initially seems to be a mish-mash ends up gelling together. The single-player side of the game is really well structured, with four levels of competition, each composed of 13 races, and you must finish most in the top three to unlock the next one.The different types of races test a variety of unconventional driving skills, such as the ability to drive into the side of moving cars, and judicious use of the handbrake is de rigueur. You earn prize money with which to buy new cars or upgrade ones you already have.Like the mighty but lamented Road Rash, the races are sufficiently long (some are held over two legs) for you to recover from early setbacks. Although you often encounter Mario Kart-style bad-beats, such as being T-boned by unseen cars when negotiating an Eight-ball crossover.The single-player game is refreshingly meaty, and everything can be played online – many of the game modes make highly compelling post-pub party-game fodder. Plus there's an Autolog-style system called RaceNet which lets you take your best efforts and post them as challenges for your friends. And as in DiRT 3, you can send spectacular snippets straight to YouTube.DiRT Showdown isn't going to change the world – it's a frothy, tongue-in-cheek driving game with pretensions towards nothing beyond providing entertainment. But it does that in spades, with considerable technical accomplishment.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 26 May 2012PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Future Soldier(15+)Xbox 360 (75)PS3 (25)12 (1)Max Payne 3(18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (44)23 (–)Dragon's Dogma(12+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (39)14 (–)Dirt Showdown(7+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (39)15 (5)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (34)Wii (7)PSP (3)356 (4)Sniper Elite V2(15+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (41)PC (6)47 (7)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (48)PS3 (43)PC (7)Wii (2)298 (6)Prototype 2(18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (42)59 (2)Diablo III(15+)PC (100)210 (3)Fifa Street(3+)PS3 (57)Xbox 360 (43)1111 (–)Mario Tennis Open (3+)3DS (100)112 (8)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (39)PC (9)3113 (10)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (61)3DS (39)2614 (–)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (34)PC (10)Wii (2)4615 (9)Assassin's Creed: Revelations(15+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (37)PC (2)2616 (11)Mass Effect 3(15+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (32)PC (10)1217 (15)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (43)PS3 (35)PC (22)2918 (14)Kinect Star Wars(12+)Xbox 360 (100)819 (12)Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure(7+)Wii (50)Xbox 360 (27)PS3 (13)3DS (9)2120 (18)Saints Row: The Third(18+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (42)PC (1)27UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHow Apple and Microsoft armed 4,000 patent warheads &gt;&gt; Wired.comBut [Scott] Widdowson is a specialist. He's one of 10 reverse-engineers working full time for a stealthy company funded by some of the biggest names in technology: Apple, Microsoft, Research In Motion, Sony, and Ericsson. Called the Rockstar Consortium, the 32-person outfit has a single-minded mission: It examines successful products, like routers and smartphones, and it tries to find proof that these products infringe on a portfolio of over 4,000 technology patents once owned by one of the world's largest telecommunications companies... In the last two months, Rockstar has started negotiations with as many as 100 potential licensees. And with control of a patent portfolio covering core wireless communications technologies such as LTE (Long Term Evolution) and 3G, there is literally no end in sight.Dispiriting. (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)T.E.L. Studies website offline &gt;&gt; Jeremy Wilson's blogWe have taken the T. E. Lawrence Studies website offline, because anonymous analytics cookies – used to understand how visitors use the site so that we can make it work better  – do not comply with EU privacy law. This law has now been implemented in the UK (though not, according to media reports, in some other parts of the EU).And that'safterreading the ICO's updated advice on cookies.The iPad Mini will mean the death of eInk &gt;&gt; Mike Cane's xBlogIgnore the "iPad mini" meme (which has been around since roughly the day after the iPad launched), and there's some interesting thinking here on whether eInk devices have a long future or not. Basically, if they can't do more than just display books, then likely not - because most people don't read enough books to need a dedicated reader.Samsung Galaxy S III Review &gt;&gt; SlashGearExhaustive review.The big question is whether TouchWiz legitimately adds to the Galaxy S III or if Samsung would've done users more of a service by delivering untampered Ice Cream Sandwich instead. There's no doubt that Android 4.0 marked a vast improvement in native UX over earlier iterations, and we're big fans of ICS' simple UI too. Third-party reskins inevitably lead to delays in OS upgrades – and Samsung has a mixed track record for that anyway – while users new to the skin generally have a steeper learning curve.On the flip side, those coming from an earlier Samsung device should be able to dive straight in, and will probably find at least one or two improvements in the Nature UX that work to their advantage. It's the cleanest version of TouchWiz so farEven so, he seems equivocal about its plastic-ness.Want fibre in the rural north? Sponsor a metre of it &gt;&gt; B4RNOur minimum shareholding in B4RN is £100, and that is too much for some people, and we have been asked if we could allow smaller donations. We had a think, and we put a donate button on the site where you can donate anything you like, from a pound or a dollar to a million…Then, during a conversation with Ken Fallon on a radio podcast the idea of sponsorship was born. The plan so far, is that for a donation of £5 you can sponsor a metre of our fibre duct. In return we put your name on a metre of duct and take a photo of it. Your metre of the B4RN network with your name on it will be buried on a Lancashire upland farm for posterity, and your generosity will enable another metre to be laid in our community network.Getting high-speed internet to the rural north, literally a metre at a time. What's really needed is for Ed Vaizey to change the ludicrous charging tariff on fibre so it's economic to lay and light it.Experience eight years of breathtaking Saturnian exploration in five minutes &gt;&gt; io9NASA's Cassini spacecraft has been orbiting around Saturn and its various moons since 2004. In that time, it's collected thousands upon thousands of awe-inspiring images of the ringed planet and its satellites.Sequence put together not by Nasa, but by a science-loving geology student, Nahum Chazarra.Killer zombie comment attacks via Google News &gt;&gt; TidBitsAfter the fourth or fifth time of being hammered after an article appeared in Google News, I finally discovered a pattern I should have seen earlier. Our access logs were full of requests from many different IP addresses asking for the same page repeatedly within a few seconds. That in itself wasn't unusual for traffic generated by Google News, but more peculiar was the user-agent identifier — that's the bit of text a browser sends that tells a server what its maker and version are.Lots of traffic from Google News, but not all of it driven by humans.Phablets, like the Samsung Galaxy Note, will surpass 208 million device shipments annually in 2015 &gt;&gt; ABI Research"One of the chief drivers for phablets is the amount of time people use their smartphones for web browsing, reading articles and newspapers on the go, or simply navigating their journeys," says senior analyst Joshua Flood. "The larger screen sizes make a significant difference to the user's experience when compared to conventional-sized touchscreens between 3.5 to 4 inches." Additionally, new phablet-styled devices provide an attractive two-in-one device proposition and are beginning to see the competition between these larger smartphone form factors and smaller media tablets (less than seven inches).Phablets are defined as having a touch screen size between 4.6 to 5.5 inches. Global shipments for phablets will increase by a factor of 10 in 2012 from 2011.So there are two predictions there, one which we can know about within about 10 months, and another that will take rather longer. Suspect that Asia is going to be a primary market for them, though headphones with a mic mean the "giant phone" thing isn't a problem for calls.New Google tablet set to defend the Android market &gt;&gt; CNBCJon Fortt:Google's 7-inch Android tablet is real — it's even being passed around inside the Googleplex.That's what I'm hearing from Googlers who have seen the device. Backing up what's been rumored for months on CNET, Digitimes and other sites, I'm hearing that this device is aimed squarely at Amazon's Kindle Fire (which runs Amazon's tailored version of Android). It's likely to start in the $200 to $250 range, have a higher resolution screen, and perhaps a camera.It's not aiming to compete with the iPad, the article says. But at that price, can it be profitable? Amazon has a strategy: make up hardware losses through content sales. What's Google's?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest links, tag articles on Pinboard.in with "guardiantech"
Well, that was a gorgeous weekend wasn't it? Did you stay outside in the sun, or draw the curtains and get stuck back in to Diablo III? Whatever, we want to hear all about it.
'Hewlett-Packard to lay off 27,000 employees," said the headline, prompting a grimace from this columnist. For while it's great fun to observe a smart-ass startup such as Facebook screw up (as it appears it did with its IPO), it's quite another to see one of the world's great technology companies apparently entering a death spiral. What you need to understand is that for geeks of my generation, HP was a synonym for engineering excellence in the same way that Rolls-Royce is for aero-engine designers. And what makes it worse is that most of HP's wounds were self-inflicted.So it was with a sinking heart that I dug out thetranscript of the internal videothat HP's newish CEO, Meg Whitman, sent to her 350,000 staff, announcing the job cuts and other measures she is taking. Having read it, I came away thinking that not only does Meg get it, but that she might even turn this supertanker round.In her message she laid the bad news on the line. "At the end of 2009 we reported a workforce of about 304,000. At the end of 2010 we had almost 325,000 employees, and at the end of 2011 that number had ballooned to nearly 350,000. Over that same period we saw year-over-year revenue growth of 10% in 2010, of 1% in 2011, and, so far in 2012, revenues have been declining."We're struggling under our own weight. And we've got to restore a healthy balance in order to return HP to its position as a growing‚ thriving‚ innovating industry leader. That's what this is all about. And the workforce reduction is only one piece of a comprehensive effort. We see a lot of opportunity to remove complexity, streamline and reduce costs in a number of areas across HP."What those numbers conceal is mismanagement on an epic scale by Whitman's recent predecessors – a record of cock-ups overseen by a company board that checked out its collective brain at the doors of the executive suite. Space precludes giving anexhaustive listbut here are some of the highlights. In 1999 HP appointed a glamorous new CEO, oneCarly Fiorina. Her big idea was that HP should buy Compaq for $25bn. This made HP the world's biggest PC manufacturer, as a result of which it lost revenue steadily and the shares halved in value. Eventually, in 2005, the board fired Fiorina. In the interim between her departure and the recruitment of a successor it was revealed that the company was using private detectives to spy on board members and several journalists, using techniques that will be familiar to any observer of the Leveson inquiry.In 2006 the board hiredMark Hurdas CEO. He presided over five years of revenue growth and a 130% increase in share value but in 2010 was forced to resign after allegations of "inappropriate behaviour" with a voluptuous former "actress" who was also a company consultant. These allegations were never substantiated and led Hurd's friend, Larry Ellison, to characterise the HP board's actions as"the worst personnel decision since the idiots on the Apple board fired Steve Jobs many years ago". Ellison immediately hired Hurd as co-president of Oracle, and HP shareholderslaunched a lawsuitagainst HP's board of directors.In September 2010 HP hired another genius, name ofLeo Apotheker, from the German company SAP, which sells business software, not consumer products. In July Herr Apotheker launched theHP Touchpad, a wannabee iPad killer. Forty-nine days later he announced that the company was scrapping the Touchpad – a decision that failed to amuse the retailers who had pre-bought 200,000 of the devices. The Touchpad was immediately discounted to $99 and people were almost trampled to death in the stampede to buy them. Not content with this triumph, Apotheker next announced that HP was getting out of the PC business altogether – and then&nbsp;recanted after an "internal review". So HP remains a major PC&nbsp;manufacturer.In September 2011 Herr Apotheker departed, no doubt with generous compensation, and the HP board finally appointed as president and CEO someone who knew what she was doing –Meg Whitman. She's a real grownup who has worked for DreamWorks and Procter &amp; Gamble, but most importantly she was CEO of eBay during its massive expansion from 30 to 15,000 employees and $8bn in annual revenues. Her message to HP employees last week suggests that she is a model of how to tell employees the truth, and has a good understanding of what needs to be done. Now all she has to do is make it happen.
There was no excuse for the shambolic launch ofDiablo III. It was the most widely awaited PC game in, oh, ages – we know this because developer Blizzard Entertainment mentioned "2&nbsp;million pre-orders" in passing. So the protracted meltdown suffered by the company's servers was shoddy. Seven years after the equally laughable first few days in the online life ofWorld of Warcraft, Blizzard seems no closer to having the infrastructure to support its products at launch.Equally risible are the demandsDiablo IIImakes on your network. There's no option to swerve the online community and play offline, not even a single-player mode.Diablo IIImust always be online. So even if Blizzard's servers aren't groaning under some (apparently wholly unpredictable) demand, stable and speedy broadband is required. Let those who are absolutely confident in the integrity of their internet connection blithely enjoy the game – the rest of us will just have to take our chances.These (not significant) shortcomings are all the more galling in light of the fact thatDiablo IIIis an endlessly playable, occasionally madly thrilling role-playing actioner of the kind that can keep you up all night. It harks back to the arcade dungeon-crawlers of the last century even as it points the way towards a future of customisable online  multiplayer communities.The look, the sound, the ease of use and, above all, the endless variation makeDiablo IIIa longlasting pleasure. The broad strokes (hone your character's skills, collect items, get involved in frequent combat) are simple; the complexity is all in the details. A beginning-to-end jaunt ought to last maybe 20 hours (longer as you increase difficulty, when tactical acumen becomes as critical as brute force). It's rewarding enough to make the initial shambles forgivable. The "always online" diktat is a different thing altogether.
Codemasters takes a sharp left turn with its latest off-roader, ditching the traditional highly polished rally racing for arcade-style, stock-car dirt tracks and destruction-derby mayhem.Despite the (mostly) unlicensed cars and tracks,Dirt: Showdownis unmistakably a spin-off of theColin McRae Rallyfranchise, except with added wild handling, explosive collisions and voiceovers boomingly declaring players' awesomeness behind the wheel. Single-player mode offers a variety of courses, including the gymkhana-style "hoonigan", earning points for drifts and tricks with licensed cars, and the "death match" destruction and survival modes, where a variety of old bangers clock up points for smashing opponents. While rally fans wait impatiently forDirt 4,Showdownoffers a satisfying bang for your buck in the interim – largely, as is so often the case, in the chaotic multiplayer modes. This is bold, brash, looks magnificent and is damn fine fun.
Left literally heartless but somehow alive in the wake of a dragon's attack on your village,Dragon's Dogmasees players set off to not only reclaim their vital organ but perhaps to save the world en route. So far, soSkyrim– but Capcom's new game only bears surface similarities toBethesda's fantasy opus. Branching quests and ridiculously customisable characters certainly make their appearance here, but there's none of the stat-grinding tedium. Instead, hardy combat is the focus, with a class system allowing you to blend melee, magic and ranged attacks as you progress.The standout feature, though, is the pawn system, where support characters are shared online when you're away, returning with spoils of war. You can hire additional pawns from a global pool to bolster your own party too. It's a fantastic system that brings a fresh level of interaction to single-player gaming, and makesDragon's Dogmaa unique offering from Japan's otherwise play-it-safe developers.
New EU regulations on the use by British websites of cookies have been watered down by the UK's information commissioner just hours before they were due to come into force.But they could mean that Britain is out of step with EU law in its implementation of the continent-wide directives, and lead to fights with European courts.In an updatedversionof its advice for websites on how to use cookies – small text files that are stored on the user's computer and can identify them – the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) has said that websites can assume that users have consented to their use of them.The advice was only updated on Thursday, 48 hours before the deadline for implementing the new rules, and published the next day."This is a striking shift," said Stephen Groom, head of marketing and privacy law at the law firm Osborne Clarke. "Previously the ICO said that implied consent would be unlikely to work. Now it says that implied consent is a valid form of consent."The use of "implied consent" shifts responsibility to the user rather than the website operator, and will come as a relief to thousands of website operators who have been struggling to comply with new EU directives which came into law a year ago.Those required sites to make it clear when they were saving a cookie on the user's computer which many sites complained was simply impractical. Sites rely on cookies to store data such as online shopping baskets, identification and other user preferences, and requiring users to agree to each instance would subject them to a blizzard of decisions about acceptance or refusal."Just six months ago the ICO said general awareness of the functions and use of cookies was simply not high enough for websites to look to rely entirely in the first instance on implied consent," said Groom. "Now it tells us that 'implied consent has always been a reasonable proposition in the context of data protection law' and that it remains so in the context of storage of information or access to information using cookies and similar devices."Michael Ross, former CEO of the online retailer figleaves.com, had come out against those proposals. "The EU cookie law is simply a bad law and a restraint to trade online at a time when business needs all the help it can get. Trading online without using cookies for analytics or various types of marketing tracking is analogous to asking a retailer to trade blindfolded. It's simply not possible."According to a recent KPMG study, 95% of companies have yet to comply with the legislation and any business implementing the law in its entirety risks going bust, some had warned. The ICO is able to exact a fine of up to £500,000.In May 2011 Brussels introduced amendments to the 2003 EU e-privacy directive requiring websites to gain user consent for the use of tracking technologies, the most common of which are 'cookies'. The guidance issued on the updated rules encourages companies to be more open about what these cookies are and how they might be used. In the UK, the ICO gave companies a year-long grace period to implement these changes, which comes to an end on 26 May 2012.Bur analysts say a number of grey areas remain. For example, a website might sell some of its space for marketing, which is auctioned in real time to advertisers, making it near-impossible to show users immediately which cookies are going to be used.UK websites had also complained that it would put them at a disadvantage against European sites which had taken a more laissez-faire attitude to implementing the directive. Vinod Bange, data privacy specialist at the law firm Taylor Wessing, said: "Given that the rest of mainland Europe is yet to take this directive seriously, it is a shame that UK Plc's online economy is being jeopardised. If the new cookie law were fully enforced by the ICO, it could make Europe – and the UK specifically – a less attractive place to do business, and less competitive globally."Groom noted that "although this new, pragmatic approach is undoubtedly more business-friendly, ideally it would have been good to have had earlier visibility of this dramatic change. It also remains to be seen whether this puts the UK out of step with Brussels and most other EU states."Non-EU businesses without assets in the region could theoretically circumvent the directive and use cookies to provide targeted services, while EU-based businesses doing so would risk prosecution. That would put UK online retailers in particular at a severe disadvantage.• This article was amended on 29 May 2012 to make clear that Michael Ross no longer works at figleaves.com and that he was its CEO, not founder.
Mario Tennis Open, 3DSIn Mario Tennis Open, as well as directing shots with the joypad you can also manoeuvre your player into coloured circles that pop up, before tapping the matching button on the touchscreen.Successful shots are lethally overpowered, helping to shape matches against familiar opponents whose playing styles you'll need to learn and adapt to. With only a single game or set online and tournaments to play through on your own, the only letdown is that these polished mechanics have so little to surround them.Nintendo, £39.99Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Future Soldier, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Future SoldierSet in the near future, the latest Ghost Recon takes a range of soldierly gadgets currently in development and extrapolates them into neatly streamlined versions that actually work. The result is a welter of augmented reality information sprouting from tangos (that is, bad people) and vehicles, along with a range of drones, x-ray goggles and occasionally air strikes to assist your three or four-man team in taking on overwhelming odds. Encounters play out like miniature puzzles, letting you figure out how best to pit your chaps against more numerous, often oblivious foes. There are plenty of changes in tempo, a scoring system to encourage replay, and a superb range of online multiplayer modes favouring teamwork and tactics.Ubisoft, £49.99DiRT Showdown, PC, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360DiRT ShowdownA spin-off from the main DiRT franchise, Showdown offers events united by a love of automotive destruction: demolition derbies, rounds where you score points for ramming or writing off other cars, and fun with platforms from which cars can be propelled. Structurally, Showdown's big cash prizes and process of track and car unlocking are pretty prosaic, but the savage races are anything but, supplying brief, adrenaline-ravaged, nitrous-fuelled mayhem, with panels shearing off and exhaust pipes belching blue flames. The commentator spouts appalling gibberish ("Epic win! Owned! Sayonara, muchacho!") and the chaos brings unwelcome randomness, but it's all stupidly good fun.Codemasters, £29.99-£49.99Games newsEuropean Bus SimulatorDiablo III's launch was marred by technical problems as millions of would-be dungeon explorers tried to log in at the same time. The result was error codes, Twitter tirades and publisher Blizzard admitting that their preparations "did not go far enough". They promise the delayed release of the game's real money auction house will go more smoothly …Also out in time for the bank holiday weekend areDragon's Dogma(Xbox 360, PS3), Capcom's fascinating open world adventure game;Sorcery(PS3), which puts PlayStation's Move wand to good use casting spells;Men In Black: Alien Crisis(3DS, Xbox 360, PS3, Wii) which arrives in time to tie-in with the blockbuster film from which it is licensed; whileEuropean Bus Simulator(PC) allows the many admirers of non-rail-based continental public transport to indulge their strange desires.
It's always dangerous to advertise something as indestructible. Like the friend who snapped a Le Creuset making a moussaka, there is always someone who'll manage to destroy in a day what another will pass down as an heirloom through the generations.Nonetheless, this handmade Swedish bicycle is supposed to last more or less for ever, so I did with it all the sort of things I avoid on my racer. I left it in the rain without fretting about rust. I didn't panic what a pothole might do to the forks. The paintwork onthe last bike I testedscratched the first time I tethered it to a lamp-post with a D-lock; I gave the Pilen far more abuse and the green paint remained&nbsp;pristine.It wasn't a huge change for me. I'm not one of those weirdos who looks after their bike better than their partner – my bicycle willneversleep in my bedroom. And though some shameful side of me privately enjoys washing my bike of a Saturday afternoon, I generally treat my machines as workhorses rather than ornaments to admire.So the Pilen should have been perfect for me. The expensive steel frame is strong and the Nexus hub keeps the eight well-spaced gears away from the elements. It's the first time I've ridden a bike with front and rear roller brakes tucked away in the wheel hubs, and I was very impressed how effective and low (zero) maintenance they were. The integrated Abus rear-wheel lock meant I only had to lug around one lock to wrap around the front wheel and frame. The dynamo saved me faffing around taking off the lights every time I locked it up and the shiny mudguards protected my clothes from much of April's showers.And yet, and yet. I never really fell for the Pilen Sport. Perhaps it's one of those products that only makes true sense in its native setting. Just as that Sarah Lund sweater looks better in Copenhagen than Croydon, the Pilen seems more suited for the civilised streets ofMålilla, the southern Swedish town where Pilens are made, than for someone like me living in a one-bedroom flat in Hackney. It'sadvertised as a light bikebut it weighs 18.1kg all in, and I&nbsp;dreaded hefting it up two flights of stairs every evening.There was no way I was leaving it outside – it costs £995! Here's how they came up with the price. Posh frame. Fancy super-strong forks with crown brazed legs. A Brooks saddle worth £70. Limited production runs. Much is made on the Pilen website about the bike being lovingly designed and assembled in Sweden, which would explain much of the cost – until you realise the frames and forks are made in Taiwan and feel a little short-changed.Pilen SportPrice£995,from there-cycling.co.ukFrameChromium-molybdenum steel (not stainless steel)Gears8 (Shimano Nexus Inter-8 hub)Weight18.1kg, including lights, rear-wheel lock and rackIn a wordScandy• This article was edited on 28 May 2012. In the original, we said Pilens bicycles were made in the 'southern Swedish town of Småland'. Småland is, in fact the third biggest province in Sweden, covering more than 29,000 square kilometres. This has been corrected.
Nearly 1,400 UK Android smartphone users have been hit by premium-rate phone scams that cost them up to £15 when they opened fake versions of game apps including Angry Birds, Assassin's Creed and Cut the Rope.The malicious programs attacked phones running Google's Android mobile software, which now makes up the majority of sales in the UK. They were posted to Google's official Android Marketplace (since renamed Google Play) in mid-November; the first complaint followed weeks later. In all, 1,391 people in the UK were affected and were falsely charged a total of £27,850. An unknown number were affected in 17 other countries where the scam was run.PhonePayPlus, the premium-rate regulator, prevented the money being paid to the scammers, and this week fined a Latvian company called A1 Agregator £50,000 after more than a thousand mobile users in the UK were hit by the fraud, which used faked versions of popular apps. The apps had been altered so that when they were opened, they would send three premium-rate SMSs, each costing £5. The alterations to the apps also hid the sending and receipt of the messages, so users would be unaware they were racking up the costs.A1 Agregator was fined because it was in charge of the "shortcodes" and payment mechanisms used for the scam in the UK, though the regulator said it could not say whether the company was directly involved in the planning of the scam.But PhonePayPlus warned that the scheme is part of a multinational scheme by scammers aiming to capitalise on the growing popularity of Google's platform, allied to the lack of checks on programs that are posted to its app store. While Apple carries out checks on apps before they are posted, Google allows developers to post apps without review. Google can be revoke apps from both Google Play and from handsets if they are found to be malicious.Carl Leonard, senior security research manager EMEA at IT security firm Websense, said: "Mobile apps are a powerful malware delivery technique as most users are willing to allow apps to do anything to get the desired functionality."About half of the UK population presently has a smartphone, and more than half of those are Android phones. The proportion using a smartphone is presently growing by about 2% a quarter.Lookout Mobile Security,which first spotted the appsbeing posted to Google's store, said that a total of 27 malicious apps using the text-message scam – which it dubbed "RuFraud" – had been posted there by the end of December. It worked with Google to remove them as quickly as they were spotted.The scam targeted users in 18 countries, including the UK, Italy, France, Israel, Germany, Russia, Azerbaijan, Armenia, Georgia, Czech Republic, Poland, Kazakhstan, Belarus, Latvia, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Ukraine and Estonia. Lookout identified six different developer names that had been used to post the apps. By using different developers, the scammers would have longer to evade Google's and Lookout's security scanning, and could hope to get more downloads and revenue."These apps had coding to affect 18 countries and can be seen as part of an experiment to see where these attacks may be successful in delivering revenue," said a spokesperson for PhonePayPlus.A1 Agregator has been ordered to refund the money taken to everyone who was scammed by a repayment to their mobile phone bills.A decade ago as internet use in UK homes was growing but dial-up use was more common, criminals wrote malware that silently changed the dial-up number used to connect to the internet. Instead of calling the local rate number – which would cost about 1p a minute – it would dial high-price international numbers from which the criminals received a significant cut. Tens of thousands of people lost totals of millions of pounds in the scams.A1 Agregator has a London accommodation address in Argyll Street, London, which was set up in 2004. Its only named director is Slobodan Perovic, who is also a director of 38 other small UK-registered companies. The company operates in Russia, where it boasts that it can offer text message facilities to 50 operators in 37 countries.
On a Hong Kong bus this week, as I checked my Twitter stream on my mobile phone, a tweet fromNasa, America's space agency, arrived. It reminded me that Space Exploration Technologies' Falcon 9 spaceship was about to launch from Cape Canaveral in Florida. Nasa was running alive stream. I tuned in.As the bus neared my downtown destination, I watched asthe rocket lifted off and flew safely into orbit. The experience was mind-bending. It was also one of those times when I've been most powerfully aware of the digital revolution's impacts on our world.My spirits soared with the ascending rocket. This was a brilliant human achievement. A remarkable team led byElon Muskis masterfully deploying technology to demonstrate that frontiers once assumed to be the sole province of nation states are also within reach of the private sector.Moore's Law and its corollaries – our modern reality of technology that grows ever more powerful, cheaper and miniaturized – are integral to the existence ofSpaceXand other emerging enterprises.Enthralled as I was that Tuesday afternoon by the space shot, which demonstrated America's re-emergence as a nation that values exploration, I was at least as struck by the means with which I'd been able to witness it. An event taking place in Florida had made its way via the internet to a mobile phone halfway around the world via a variety of networks, with high quality and little latency. I'd learned about it via another kind of network, a social kind – the Nasa tweet had actually been forwarded to me, or "retweeted" in Twitter lingo, by someone I follow on the service.The technologies at the edges of these networks were also important. Nasa, which was paying SpaceX to do this launch, had trained its high-definition digital video cameras on the launch and then putthe imagesout on the internet in a variety of formats designed to be watchable by virtually any kind of device. As the images from ground cameras grew fainter, the view switched to cameras mounted on the rocket, looking back at the planet and engine flames. My mobile phone had a powerful enough 3G radio and more than good enough screen to give me – and who knows how many others around the planet – a window into this historic day.There were no brand new technologies at work. Yet I was struck by the seamlessness of the experience – made possible because the various hardware and software pieces involved worked together via mostly open standards that have emerged in recent decades. Telecommunications continue to be centralized in some important ways, but innovation still has the edge over incumbency. Technology is shrinking our home planet even as it helps us move off it more quickly.Of course, I was well aware that younger people in the developed world already find such things, well, routine. Assuming humanity (or at least, civilization) survives its self-destructive ways, and that governments and the telecom access providers don't assert absolute control over the bits we send each other, these kinds of communications will only get more seamless and normal. We won't just watch all kinds of events, large and small, wherever we are and whenever we want; we'll contribute what we are seeing to a global mosaic of reality.I'm back in the US as I write this, brought home by another semi-modern miracle that my generation takes for granted: commercial aviation. Plane travel wasn't routine for my parents. But if the Elon Musks of our world continue their work, and if the digital revolution continues at anything like the pace of the recent past, it won't be more than another generation before people head into space as a matter of course.And they'll tell each other about it via devices that make today's mobile phones look prehistoric, and via social systems that have long since replaced Facebook and Twitter.
Google introduced in-app purchases on its Android Market store in March 2011, but that feature has now been expanded to include auto-renewing subscriptions as well as one-off payments.Android developers distributing their apps through what's now the Google Play store can sell monthly or annual subscriptions, with Google handling the transactions. Android users can view and cancel subscriptions from within the Google Play Store app on their devices.In ablog postannouncing the news, Google Play product manager Ibrahim Elbouchikhi stresses that this isn't just about magazine and newspaper apps."Developers can use them to monetize premium dynamic content such as journals and magazines, but they can also use them to sell access to bundled products, game levels, music and video content, value-added services, or any other digital content."Indeed, the sole launch developer mentioned in the blog post is a games company, Glu Mobile, which will be using Google's subscription billing to sell "custom VIP currency packages" for some of its freemium Android games.The subscription billing isn't just for digital publications, then, but that's the area where it could have the biggest impact. The ability to charge for six or 12 months at a time rather than just single purchases removes one of the barriers that has stopped more publishers porting their digital editions from iOS to Android.Note: one of the barriers. A number of print publishers remain spooked by Android fragmentation (device screen size, OS version, etc – these concerns are well known, and Google has beenworking on the problem).The sheer size of the addressable Android smartphone market – 89.8m handsets shipped in Q1 2012 alone for a 59% market share according toIDC's latest stats– is what's persuading publishers of other kinds of apps to stop complaining about Android fragmentation and start the necessary investment to deal with it.Is that true of magazine and newspaper companies? I'm not so sure: even for those who offer smartphone and tablet versions of their digital editions, it's the tablet that is foremost in their minds when planning strategy. It's good that Android tablet owners can now pay with subscriptions, but it's a case of when there will be enough of them to make this a valuable business.Which is not to say that magazine and newspaper publishers aren't keen on Android. It's more accurate to say they're keen on specific Android devices.Numerous times recently when I've talked to currently-iOS-only publishers and asked them about Android plans, the conversation has rapidly become one about Amazon's Kindle Fire and (for US publishers) Barnes &amp; Noble's Nook Tablet.And, of course, both of these are tied into those companies' billing systems rather than the Google Play store. Where Google's new billing will have an impact is when other Android tablets – Samsung's Galaxy Tab for example – have wide enough install bases to make tempting targets.In other words, don't expect an immediate rush of digital magazines and newspapers onto the Google Play store. Still, in-app subscriptions are one of the key building blocks required for Android to rise up print publishers' priorities lists.Note: as an external freelancer, I don't have inside information on The Guardian's Android tablet plans; nor does this blog post represent the newspaper's thinking on the matter.
Thursday night saw quite a brouhaha on Twitter about therejigging of Microsoft's Visual Studio 11 (VS11) versionsand thesimultaneous removal of the compiler toolchain from the Windows Software Development Kit (SDK). People were not happy. Count me in: I too was not happy.(You can read some of the discussionshere,here, andhere.)Microsoft is changing at lot at the moment as we close in on Windows 8 and Windows RT (the locked-down Metro version for ARM-based tablets). But are we just reacting against the change because we don't like change? Let's have a look and find out …Removing the compilerSeriously, who cares?So the story here is that the Windows SDK has always had a compiler. The Windows SDK itself is so old that I'm pretty sure it was the first thing ever to be called an "SDK".I've been writing software for Windows for 21 years. The number of times I've invoked the compiler directly, as opposed to through an IDE, is somewhere in the region of zero. Before that, when I used to write software for DOS on Zorland/Zortech and Borland, I'm pretty sure I never invoked the compiler directly.But perhaps that's not the point. The point is now that in order to get that stuff, you have to pay for it, whereas since the dawn of time it had been free. The internet doesn't like it when stuff goes from "free" to "paid".ExpressMicrosoft typically uses the "Express" moniker to denote free versions of product SKUs [stock-keeping unit – ie, something that is a separate product from other products … so Windows XP Home and Windows XP Professional are two SKUs]. They are generally pretty hardcore products, just with some of their capabilities lightly trimmed. For instance, the SQL Server Express SKUs have significant limits on processor and memory consumption.What was typically missing from the Visual Studio Express editions was anything to do with application lifecycle management (ALM) – ie, issue tracking, continuous integration, modelling, and so on. Express wasn't and isn't about "proper" software engineering.Microsoft's position is that it's about "programming", as opposed to being software that you can use within a real commercial endeavour. If you actually ever made any real money out of writing software for the Microsoft stack (and people who do do that are always targeting big corporates), you need some proper ALM tools to go along with it. Proper software houses don't use Express, and they never have. Express carries the aroma of "hobbyist".Microsoft's position on development tools has always been pretty free and easy. Since the beginning Microsoft's objective has been about getting developer tools out there and making them as cheap as possible to reduce the cost of entry for developers. If you go way back, Express was supposed to be a paid product – albeit at the $100 range. The Microsoft team changed their mind and made it free instead.What's changed now is that Express has got a lot less "hippy" and a lot more corporate.CorporateThe kinds of software you can write for Windows is pretty extensive. You can write web applications, desktop applications (Windows Forms, WPF/Silverlight, MFC, or straight Win32), service applications (.NET or Win32), and device drivers (Win32). You can run your software on desktops, "normal" servers, or PaaS providers like Microsoft Azure orAppHarbor. And now with Windows 8/Windows RT we're getting Metro-style apps, written in WinRT, the bastard lovechild of .NET and a COM. That's a lot of different ways to write and package software.Prior to VS11 you could use the Express editions to do any of this. But it appears now that Microsoft's hippy/free-loving Developer tools division (DevDiv) have had their party curtailed by the Windows division (WinDiv). The WinDiv team wants certain technologies pushed more than others – specifically, they're really keen on building software that runs on Azure, ASP.NET-based web apps, and apps for Windows Phone, and they are absolutely mad keen for developers to write Metro-style apps to fit into their new strategy for Windows 8/Windows RT.Thus, VS11 will be available in two versions: a "for Windows 8" version thataccording to the Microsoft web sitelets you build "Metro-style applications". This is the new process model for Windows 8/Windows RT. Sandboxed apps, tightly controlled, WinRT based, and distributed through the Microsoft Store. (Presumably this will also also include the Windows Phone tooling – although my guess would be for WP8/Apollo not WP7.)The second version, "for Web", targets ASP.NET and Azure.At this point, if you want to write device drivers using Express, you're screwed. But it's hardly likely anyone would do that.Likewise, using Express to build MFC or Win32 applications? Uh – hardly. I guess there are probably a few hobbyists out there with some old-school apps that they maintain as a semi-commercial enterprise. They're going to have to keep using pre-VS11 Express versions which, by the way, will still be supported, even up to .NET 4.0.This leaves Silverlight and Windows Forms developers as the group that are really missing out in VS11 land. Honestly? Those guys need to get with the program. Silverlight is dead. Let's just repeat: dead. I'm not shedding a tear for this tooling not being available in VS11. Likewise Windows Forms: it's handy to have around, but as for the hobbyist with a MFC app that still needs maintaining, the answer is to just use an old version.Free toolsetsIt seems like Microsoft is changing everything every day with Windows 8. That's either the sign of a company that's completely on top of a complex secret strategy, or one on a direct path to self-destruction. We're not going to know until the market judges Windows 8 and Windows RT.I don't like some of the things they're doing, Nor do some Windows cheerleaders; when was the last time you saw Paul Thurrott beingso down on a desktop feature? I'm hardly delighted about theChimera-esque nature of classic desktop and Metro-style. And to be clear, I don'tlikethe decision to neuter VS11's capabilities to line up with Microsoft's corporate strategy. I just don't think itmatters.With the VS11 Express editions you can build Metro-style apps, or web apps. Web apps are really important in the big picture. A developer who knows how to put together a state-of-the-art web application has his or her professional skillset in good shape. A developer who can build a Windows Forms app but is baffled by "$('div').addClass('foobar')" needs to take some time out of playing Diablo III and spend more time onCodeSchool.Metro-style is a big deal for Microsoft. If we can peer through the fog of change to what it's about, it's all about positioning a product that can compete with the iPad. Microsoft providing free tooling for this fits with the commonly accepted notion that platform adoption is helped by free tooling. Apple's tooling for iOS is free (once, ahem, you've bought a Mac). So is Android's. For what it's worth, so is RIM's.Likewise Windows Phone, for which that tooling will still be free.What this comes down to is that in the three places where Microsoft wants to drive adoption (web, Windows Phone, and Metro-style) the tooling is still free. This works for them, their shareholders, and the developers. In the places where Microsoft doesn't want to drive adoption, the tooling is paid-for. What we're looking at here is a change inattitude. Express is no longer a free ride to all stops on Microsoft's futuristic monorail. You can now only ride for free to where they want you to go.ALM should always be a charged thing. If you're selling your software to customers, then if ALM provides a way for you to drive operational efficiencies and quality, then damn right you should pay for that. Likewise, if you've got a 15-year-old legacy client/system system that only runs on NT 3.51, server and workstation, damn right you should pay for that tooling too, because someone will be paying you big money to keep that whole mess up and running. Why on earth should that be free?Look at GitHub – yes, it's free if you're doing open source. But putting private repositories up there is downright expensive, evencompared to things like Perforce. As software engineers, we should all understand that ifyou're not paying for it, you become the product.What about removing the removal of the C++ compiler from the SDK?I think for this one we needHanlon's famous razor: don't attribute to malice what can be attributed to stupidity.Microsoft is being extremely enigmatic in its communications at the moment. We don't really know why the compiler toolchain has been removed. The sinister explanation is that DevDiv or WinDiv want to stop people circumventing the VS11 restrictions. The more straightforward explanation is that as virtually everyone uses Visual Studio to build Windows software, distributing the toolchain once in that package is more straightforward.ConclusionAs with all things, follow the money. Yes, it's nice to have a toolset that's free, but if you're making proper money out of something, you'll happily buy the tools. If you're not making proper money, use the older, free tools. It's easy enough to go "ooh, software development is fun! Let's do it for free!", but it's not like that. If I couldn't make money out of software development I'd do much, much less of it. I suspect we all would.Nothing to see here. Move on.•Matthew Baxter-Reynolds is an independent software development consultant, trainer and author based in the UK. His favourite way to communicate with like-minded technical people is Twitter:@mbrit
Apple chief executive Tim Cook has opted to forgo the $75m (£48m) dividend payments that he was set to earn on the 1m shares he has received from the company.Cook, who took over from Apple's late co-founder Steve Jobs in August last year, was awarded 1m restricted stock units (RSUs) for running the company during Jobs' medical leaves.Apple said in a filing with the US Securities and Exchange Commission on Thursday night that Cook had asked the company to be excluded from a programme through which employees could accumulate dividends on their RSUs that were still vesting.With Apple's share price at more than $565 a share, Cook's shares are worth more than $500m. Half of these shares will vest in 2016 and the rest in 2021.In March, Apple announced its intention to use some of its estimated $100bn cash pile, generated by strong sales of the iPhone and iPad, to pay shareholders a dividend of $2.65 a share.It is the first time since the technology giant turned its fortunes around after Jobs' return in 1997 that Apple has issued a dividend.Apple is one of few companies on the Nasdaq that pay a dividend.Shareholders of American technology companies traditionally tolerate firms not paying dividends, which allows them to invest heavily in research and development and fund big acquisitions.Despite the payment of the dividend, Apple looks set to maintain its cash mountain at $100bn as new products such as the iPad continue to sell so well, which explains why the board has decided to pay a shareholder dividend now.
A selection of 10 new and notable apps for you today. Apps Rush is now taking a summer holiday break, and will return on Wednesday 6 June.Facebook CameraThank goodness Facebook at last has its own photo-sharing app, to compete with upstarts like Instagram that have... Wait, what? Yes, Facebook has taken the curious step of launching what looks like a rival to the app it's acquiring for $1bn. It helps users post batches of photos to Facebook, applying crops and filters as they go, while tagging friends. And it also provides a feed of friends' photos to browse too.iPhoneLinkin Park GPI'll just let the App Store listing speak for itself here: "A graphic and musical experience where players drive a Lotus F1 in a 360º Interactive Environment and create an original remix of Linkin Park's latest single Burn It Down."iPadCollins Big Cat: At the Dump Story CreatorCollins Education's latest creative Big Cat book-app focuses on going to the dump (as in refuse disposal facility, not the other kind). "Where does the paper go? Where does the glass go? What else can we recycle at the dump?" As with previous Big Cat apps, once children finish the story, they can create their own version using the characters, pictures and key vocabulary.iPadYahoo! Time TravelerYahoo has a brand new travel app for iPhone, helping people create "trip plans" for 29 cities from around the world, including London, New York, Amsterdam, Barcelona... But here's the thing: the app is only available in the US App Store, for no obvious reason given its global nature.iPhoneBrand Republic appHaymarket Business Media's Brand Republic site has an iPhone app, offering news, features and opinions pulled from its website, as well as jobs listings and links to its social profiles.iPhoneCartoon Wars 2: HeroesGamevil's latest Android game is a sequel to its Cartoon Wars real-time strategy / tower defence game. There are new characters, units and castle upgrades for what was already one of the more in-depth defence games for smartphones.AndroidWunderlist for BlackBerry PlayBook"Cloud-sync task manager" Wunderlist has made the leap to RIM's BlackBerry PlayBook tablet, with To-Do lists that can be synchronised with Wunderlist on other devices, including computers.BlackBerry PlayBookLego Ninjago: Video DojoLego has launched a new branded app for its Ninjago range, offering exclusive videos on the characters, set designers and clips from the Ninjago: Masters of Spinjitsu cartoon.iPhone / iPadThe Istanbul Adventure with Bruce the GooseHere's an interesting approach to travel apps: this is part book-app for children, and part travel guide to Istanbul. Bruce the Goose is the central character, flapping around different landmarks while making local friends along the way. English and Turkish language is supported.iPadChester ZooGoing to the zoo, zoo, zoo? How about you-r smartphone? Sorry. Chester Zoo has launched its own app, working with studio Apposing, offering an interactive map, events listings with push notifications and an in-app audio tour feature.Android / iPhone
A quick burst of 13 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple has removed Airfoil Speakers Touch from the iOS App Store &gt;&gt; Rogue AmoebaToday, we've been informed that Apple has removed Airfoil Speakers Touch from the iOS App Store.1 We first heard from Apple about this decision two days ago, and we've been discussing the pending removal with them since then. However, we still do not yet have a clear answer on why Apple has chosen to remove Airfoil Speakers Touch.John Gruberthinksit is due to use of public APIs "in ways Apple doesn't want" - where Rogue Amoeba reverse-engineered the method to let iOS devices receive AirPlay content. That undermines Apple's authenticated chip hardware revenue stream.No-cost desktop software development is dead on Windows 8 &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaMicrosoft wants Windows developers to write Windows 8-specific, Metro-style, touch-friendly applications, and to make sure that they crank these apps out, the company has decided that Visual Studio 11 Express, the free-to-use version of its integrated development environment, can produce nothing else.If you want to develop desktop applications--anything that runs at the command line or on the conventional Windows desktop that remains a fully supported, integral, essential part of Windows 8--you'll have two options: stick with the current Visual C++ 2010 Express and Visual C# 2010 Express products, or pay about $400-500 for Visual Studio 11 Professional. A second version, Visual Studio 11 Express for Web, will be able to produce HTML and JavaScript websites, and nothing more.Flipping heck. Former Microsofties are appalled.Just say "No." &gt;&gt; Dustin CurtisYahoo hasjust announced Axis, a browser extension thing and mobile app that "redefines what it means to search and browse the Web [sic]."Curtis explains why it shouldn't have, and how this tells us more (as if we needed it) about Yahoo right now.Google releases new copyright transparency report &gt;&gt; Electronic Frontier FoundationStriking is the sheer volume of takedown notices Google receives: in just the last month, it processed over 1.2 million requests for Search alone, from 1,296 copyright owners and 1,087 reporting organizations. That scale allows it to present trends in the data that might not otherwise be apparent. For example, even in the case of notorious "pirate" sites like The Pirate Bay, Google has received takedown notices for less than 5% of their indexable pages.On the other hand, this report also provides a clearer look into the abuse of copyright tools. Google explains that it's complied with 97% of takedown requests received between July and December of 2011, but also provides examples of obviously invalid copyright requests it's received.Also covered elsewhere on this site.Google Privacy Inquiries Get Little Cooperation &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comMr. Caspar asked [in spring 2010] to see the hard drive [with the Wi-Fi data collected from Street View]. Google said handing it over could expose it to liability for violating German telecommunications law, which prohibits network operators and other data managers from disclosing the private communications of their clients.This made no sense to Mr. Caspar, who explained that as data protection commissioner [for Hamburg] he was empowered to receive the data. Finally, in autumn 2010, the company yielded and gave Mr. Caspar the hard drive. By this point, Hamburg prosecutors had opened a criminal investigation.Google was equally resistant with the American authorities.Apple is still exploring ways to make stylus worthy of iPhone and iPad &gt;&gt; Unwired ViewThe stylus with haptic feedback, comes with a built-in haptic actuator and a short-range wireless receiver. The vibration commands are sent via tiny wireless transmitters built into the bezel of your iPad.Wait... did someone sayhaptic?Hang on, though -stylus?(Thanks @PaulJReynolds for first, aha, pointer)Google's Goggles Spotted on Streets of SF &gt;&gt; Technology ReviewLike Google's press images for what it calls "Project Glass," the glasses Brin wore while walking down King Street were lens-free with a small, clear prism-like display mounted above the right eye. It wasn't clear if the glasses were completely self-contained, or if they were wired to what appeared to be a smart phone in his left hand. Brin, who has been seen sporting the headgear before, wasn't using them at the moment, though - he said they were out of power.Oh, yeah, battery life.Modern Browsers &gt;&gt; AventineAfter some experimenting with what you do and don't need to get the Moog Google Doodle of a few days ago:In the end, the conclusion is that a 'modern browser' according to Google is a browser which sends 'Chrome' as its UA string and supports Flash or the Web Audio API.Can we instead on production sites standardize on something like "this site requires (experimental) features not yet present in your browser" (Thanks @getify for the idea) and a link to instructions on how they can update their browser, or if it is a browser specific feature, information about the feature and why it isn't yet supported in their browser of choice.The Guardian's n0tice experiment and why media businesses should build APIs &gt;&gt; TheMediaBriefingThe Guardian has led the way in API-based development since 2009 and now its spinoff hyperlocal social network&nbsp;n0ticehaslaunched its own set of API toolsto entice users and brands to build things using its content and functionality.Get excited and build stuff.How Tim Cook is changing Apple &gt;&gt; Fortune TechSubtly, it seems.Meet Mike and Maaike, the design studio ushering Google into hardware &gt;&gt; Co.DesignInteresting: just as Google acquires Motorola, it also buys a design studio. Maybe hardware really is where the money is.How 100 iPads saved Greece $140 billion &gt;&gt; Fortune TechPhilip Elmer-DeWitt:I got a London call last week from Bob Apfel, a Brooklyn neighbor (and fellow Oberlin College graduate)."Two weeks ago," he began. "I completed the debt restructuring of Greece."With the aid of a custom app uploaded specifically to 100 iPads so that the Greek leadership team trying to coordinate thousands of bondholders around the world signing off the default-in-all-but-name could connect to clearing services and back offices. (Original article interviewing Apfel in a Greek paper.) They used iPads because an app meant they could visualise how debt was happening. It was the world's biggest-ever debt restructuring - quite possibly prevented total economic collapse. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)Android- and iOS-powered smartphones expand share of market in 1Q 2012 &gt;&gt; IDCSmartphones powered by the Android and iOS mobile operating systems accounted for more than eight out of ten smartphones shipped in the first quarter of 2012 (1Q12). According to the International Data Corporation (IDC) Worldwide Quarterly Mobile Phone Tracker, the mobile operating systems held shares of 59.0% and 23.0% respectively of the 152.3 million smartphones shipped in 1Q12. During the first quarter of 2011, the two operating systems held a combined share of 54.4%. The share gains mean that Android and iOS have successfully distanced themselves from previous market leaders Symbian and BlackBerry, as well as Linux and Windows Phone 7/Windows Mobile.Puts smartphone shipments at 152m, up 50% year-on-year. Android is 59%; Apple + Samsung is 75m, or half the total. A two-horse race.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
It's Friday, it's going to be a gorgeous weekend, so let's all stay inside and play video games!
When Katy McCaffrey discovered that her smartphone had been stolen at the end of a Caribbean cruise, she thought there was little she could do about it.But then a few weeks later her phone began automatically posting photographs taken by its new 'owner'.The suspected thief, a crew member of the Disney cruise ship, the Wonder, has been placed on "administrative leave" by management while the theft is investigated. It is not clear exactly what happened to the phone.McCaffrey noticed that pictures were being uploaded on Apple iCloud site one month after her cruise ended and her iPhone was stolen.They seemed to show the suspected thief and his colleagues relaxing on the ship. She placed them on Facebook and alerted Disney Cruises who identified the suspect.Rebecca Peddie, manager of public affairs for Disney Cruise Line, told USA Today the line became aware of the Facebook photos and the alleged theft on Thursday, and says the iPhone had been recovered. It is currently on the Wonder, and the line intends to return it to the owner when the ship's current cruise ends.McCaffrey posted on Facebook: "I have alerted the officials of the Disney Cruise Line and forwarded them the photos. Hopefully I'll get my phone back and maybe some free passes to Disneyland."
Facebook banker Morgan Stanley is preparing to adjust thousands of share trades from last Friday's messy initial public offering to ensure no investor pays more than $43 a share, according to reports.The bank facesintense criticism of its handling of Facebook's IPO.Regulators are investigating whether the bank, and others, warned their top clients about analysts' fears that Facebook's growth was slipping while they pushed for investors to pay the highest price for the company's shares.Morgan Stanley held a conference call with brokers on Thursday afternoon as it tried to mend relations. Andy Saperstein, head of the firm's Smith Barney unit, said the adjustments will likely be made on Friday.Saperstein took no questions during the call, which lasted about 10 minutes, and made no apology, telling brokers to follow procedure and go directly to their service manager if they had any outstanding issues, two advisers told Reuters.The shares were priced at $38 apiece, but briefly soared to $45 before losing all those gains and more. Shortly before the IPO Facebook moved the target range for its IPO from $25-35 to $35-38 before settling to launch the share sale at the top end of that range.According to Reuters, the bank has now told brokers that no one will pay more than $43 for the shares that are now trading for $33.The news comes as tension builds between Facebook, its bankers and Nasdaq, the stock market that is currently home to Facebook's shares.Facebook management is reportedly unhappy with the IPO process and how it was handled by Nasdaq. The sale was delayed as the stock exchange struggled to cope with the volume of buyers and sellers. More than 571m Facebook shares were bought and sold last Friday, a record for Nasdaq, which now faced law suits and it's own regulatory inquiry.Knight Capital Group, a broker, has estimated it lost $30-35m because of Nasdaq's delays.So far Facebook has not commented on the IPO debacle. Chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg spoke to Harvard University students in her first public appearance since the IPO. But she refrained from addressing the controversy and told media she would not comment on the IPO.Sandberg spoke about inequality in the workplace, a recurring theme for the COO."We need to acknowledge openly that gender remains at issue at the highest levels," she told students at Harvard Business School and their families.After urging the graduates to use Facebook to stay in touch, she said: "We're public now, so could you please click on an ad or two while you're there."
I challenge anyone to play this game for the first time and not use the words "That's cool." I have now spent three hours withGhost Recon: Future Soldier(PC / PS3 / Xbox 360) and have lost count of the number of times I've said it. This is a game that doesn't so much quietly ooze style as fire it at 50 rounds per second: an ear-shattering Gatling gun of cool, if you will.You play as aGhost, a special forces operative armed to the teeth with gadgets, guns and gizmos, and sent around the world in a four-man team to go where other, mere mortal men cannot, and then kill someone. Or, more often, kill quite a few people with one hand and defuse a bomb, capture a dictator and/or liberate a bunch of bullied citizens with the other. That's cool, right?Cooler still are the gadgets. As the title suggests, the setting isa few years into the futureso much of the technology is based on current research and prototypes. And, on this evidence, the future does not look pretty for the enemies of American special forces.There are three remote-controlled machine allies in the game, each cooler and dafter than the last. The spycam-equipped Crawler, which resembles a cross between a toy tank and a lunar exploration module, is fairly limited: useful for scouting where conventional stealth is not an option, and not much else. Its flying cousin, the UAV, will befamiliar to players of the Modern Warfare games, but has been re-imagined in Future Soldier as a low-flying hover-drone, able to put a bullet in the back of an unsuspecting enemy's head all on its own.By far the coolest, most futuristic, and most ridiculous of the remote controlled allies is the 8ft, four-legged clanking metal elephant called theWarhound. Armed with both mortars and guided missiles, it turns up for missions where stealth has gone out of the window and takes roughly six seconds to wipe out tanks, trucks and anything else within range. At a guess, I'd say it would have ended the battle of the Somme in four minutes.For all the fun to be had blowing things up left, right and centre, the biggest thrills are the stealth missions. Here another familiar piece of future kit has been re-imagined: theoptical camouflage suitfrom Metal Gear Solid, which functions in Future Soldier as a limited invisibility cloak for you and your team. The suit makes it easy to pass guards undetected, but deactivates if you run, make too much noise or stand in front of an enemy rustling about going "Hahaha, you can't see me!" for more than a couple of seconds. Which you will feel compelled to try at least once.Vital to your team's hopes of staying undetected is the intelligent use of the Sync Shot, probably the game's freshest innovation. To set one up, you mark four enemy soldiers for your team-mates, who then fan out to get a clear shot on one each. When you take out yours, your allies take out theirs, allowing you to cut down groups of foes before any of them have a chance to sound the alarm. Which is also pretty cool, although you will eventually find yourself shouting at the endless groups of exactly four enemies :"Come on, guys! Just stand in a group of five! For once!"Another nice touch is the game's ludicrous number of guns – more than 50 – which can be customised inGunsmith modemore than 600 attachments, for a total of approximately eight kabillion combinations. Xbox Kinect players can even use the game's Gunsmith mode hands-free, standing in their living room gesturing with their fingers to attach a muzzle, recalibrate a sight or test out their bespoke weapon of choice on a firing range, which is probably the closest most of us will ever come to having one of those walls that flips round to reveal a firearms collection. Once again: cool.With a 30-hour single player campaign, and a host of online multiplayer modes, it also looks likely to have the substance to back up its style. So, in a nutshell, it's a customisable Gatling gun of style mounted on the back of a substantial metal elephant of gameplay. With an invisibility cloak. That fires rockets. Don't tell me that's not at least a little bit cool.
Google is receiving more than a million requests a month from copyright owners seeking to pull their content from the company's search results, the web giant has revealed. The number requests has grown so fast that it now often tops 250,000 a week, more than Google received for all of 2009.The figures, disclosed in Google's transparency report, reveal that in the past month alone Google received 1.2m requests on behalf of 1,000 copyright owners targeting 23,000 websites.Fred von Lohmann, Google's senior copyright counsel, said copyright infringement was the main reason Google had removed links from search terms. He said company had received a total of 3.3m requests for removals on copyright grounds last year, and was on course to quadruple that number this year. The company complies with 97% of requests.The dramatic increase follows controversial and unsuccessful attempts to tighten up online copyright law earlier this year. The Stop Online Piracy Act (Sopa) was backed by many of the world's biggest media companies and had cross party political support. But it was brought down by aglobal backlash from online activists.Lohmann said the dramatic rise had come with the growth of  "enforcement vendors", which police the internet looking for copyright violations. The largest submitter of requests for removals was Marketly, which serves the software industry, followed by Degban, which works with pornographers.Filestube.com, a search site dedicated to finding downloadable files such as audio, video and documents, was the most targeted website. It was followed by torrentz.eu, a file sharing site. Marketly was by far the largest reporting organisation, making close to 2.2m requests since June 2011. It was followed by NBC Universal, which made 985,905 requests over the same period.In a blogpost, von Lohmann wrote: "Fighting online piracy is very important, and we don't want our search results to direct people to materials that violate copyright laws. So we've always responded to copyright removal requests that meet the standards set out in the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA). At the same time, we want to be transparent about the process so that users and researchers alike understand what kinds of materials have been removed from our search results and why."Lohmann also suggested that copyright holders were abusing their powers.  "For example, we recently rejected two requests from an organization representing a major entertainment company, asking us to remove a search result that linked to a major newspaper's review of a TV show. The requests mistakenly claimed copyright violations of the show, even though there was no infringing content. We've also seen baseless copyright removal requests being used for anticompetitive purposes, or to remove content unfavorable to a particular person or company from our search results."Holmes Wlison, co-founder of digital rights lobbyist Fight for the Future, said the figures were a prime example of what was wrong with current copyright law. "The state of copyright law is out of control. It just can't cope with the way we live out lives today," he said.Wilson pointed to the case of Stephanie Lenz, a woman locked in a legal battle with Universal after publishing a video of her baby dancing to Prince's Let's Go Crazy, and to more recent news that the Beastie Boys were being sued over a sample allegedly in their 1989 hit Paul's Boutique. The suit was filed a day after founder member Adam Yauch (MCA) died of cancer."The suit was filed decades after the album came out and the sample was so unrecognizable it had to be identified using software. It's just crazy," said Holmes.
Facebook's stock market debut was supposed to be the sale of the century. The social network phenomenon had teased investors about an initial public offering for over a year.Now the sale is proving a disasterfor the firm and the banks that backed it. A week on, and with the share price settling at around $32, down 15% from the $38 opening, what went wrong?Too highThe most hyped tech IPO since Google went public was always going to be a whopper, but was Facebook really worth $100bn? The company and its bankers thought so, investors thought not.As critics pointed out,Facebook was being valued at close to 100 times last year's profits, far higher than tech rivals including Apple and Google that make far, far, more money.Butcriticsbe damned. Just before Facebook went public, the company upped the range for its share price from the $28-35 to $35-38 a share. Then Facebook set the price at $38, the top end of the range, and "priced for perfection" as brokers kept saying. As had been expected by many, Facebook's shares enjoyed a "pop" – rising 11% in early trading. But the shares soon proved less than perfectly priced and lost all their gains.Too manyIn part, say stock market experts, the fault was because Facebook had too many shares to sell. This was supposed to be the hottest IPO in a generation, frustration was mounting as investors worldwide clamored for shares, the sale was 25 times oversubscribed in Asia. Then, just before the IPO, Facebook increased the number of shares for sale by 25% to 421m.In a common move with hot IPOs, many investors had deliberately asked for more shares than they wanted in the hope of getting the desired amount if they were scaled back. Be careful what you wish for.Too muchInvestors who were expecting to get less than they asked for suddenly found they had got more than they bargained for. Effectively they became forced sellers. Early indications on the morning of the IPO were that Facebook would sell for $40 plus a share, meaning a quick profit was on the table. Investors seized the opportunity and Facebook's shares fell so far its bankers had to step in and stop the price falling below the $38 starting mark.Too richSentiment also ran against the sale after it was revealed that Facebook's early backers were increasing the size of their selloffs. Some 57% of the shares sold came from Facebook insiders. Typically the percentage of insider sales is under 10%. In other recent tech IPOs including Groupon, Zynga and Yelp the percentage was less than 1%.When Facebook announced it was increasing its share sale, insiders revealed they were substantially increasing the number of shares they were selling. Among them was Peter Thiel, one of Silicon Valley's smartest investors and a Facebook board member. He said he would now be selling 16.8m shares, up from 7.7m shares. What did he know that others didn't? Not a lot if you look atFacebook's public filing.Too lateThe social network is on track to reach one billion users this year, a seventh of the planet. But increasingly those users are now mobile and earlier this month the company warned it does "not currently directly generate any meaningful revenue" from mobile. The number of users was rising faster than its revenues, said the company. If Facebook had been a public company, that news would probably have sent its shares falling.The timing of the update, so close to the IPO, is unfortunate to say the least and has led some to ask what Facebook chief financial officer David Ebersman was doing. Analysts at the banks drafting the IPO, legally obliged to act independently of their investment banking colleagues, cut their forecasts for the firm after the update. At the same time the IPO bankers at the same banks and Facebook execs were pushing for a sale at the very top end of their price range.Who said what and when and to whom is now the subject of regulatory inquiries and shareholder law suits. But perhaps the larger point is that no one disagrees that Facebook's phenomenal growth is slowing and it has a huge problem in mobile. If Facebook had gone for its IPO last year, perhaps they would have had a pop that lasted. At least until the mobile problem came calling.… but one thing that's not Facebook's faultThe Nasdaq, the stock market that now counts Facebook as one of its top companies, is also getting a share of the blame. The tech-heavy stock market had virtually begged to take Facebook to the prom, scrapping its rule on stock ticker symbols to give the social network FB, among other concessions to win Zuckerberg over.On the day of the IPO, Nasdaq appeared overwhelmed by the size of the deal. Its systems went into lockdown, delaying the start of trading and – according to some – contributed to a feeling there was something wrong with Facebook.Brokers are now suing the market, regulators are investigating and Facebook has even reportedly considered ditching Nasdaq for its older rival downtown, the New York Stock Exchange.But even if the cock-ups had continued its seems unlikely Nasdaq would be catching this much heat if Facebook had been selling something at a price that people wanted to pay.If Apple had delayed opening the doors for another hour ahead of selling its latest set of iPads, would the customers have fled, or would the lines just have got longer?
British entrepreneur Mike Lynch, whose company Autonomy was bought by the US technology giant Hewlett-Packard for £7bn last year, is leaving the company as part of a worldwide layoff of 27,000 staff.Lynch's departure is the latest in a stream of resignations by former top executives at the UK software company amid accusations that HP is too bureaucratic, and counterclaims that Lynch and his team failed to deliver on revenue targets.But it now means that Lynch – a Cambridge graduate whose out-of-hours tastes include koi carp and model railways – could set up a new business in the "big data" sector, where Autonomy and its rivals are competing to process and make sense of huge amounts of information."He's not going away," said a source familiar with Lynch's thinking. "He still has entrepreneurial ambitions."HP announced Lynch's departure as part of its second-quarter results presentation late yesterday. Net profit was down 31.6% year-on-year to $1.98bn on revenue down 3% to $30.7bn.Even so, the results bettered expectations on Wall Street, where HP is seen as a once-great business trying to transform itself into a rival to IBM and failing because its management can neither execute nor inspire innovation from the ranks. The fact that the company is on its third chief executive in as many years is telling too. The firm said the savings made from staff cuts – around 8% of its global headcount of 340,000 – would be used to "boost investment in innovation".Lynch is a brilliant mathematician whose initial work exploited a branch of mathematics called Bayes's theorem – essentially, determining how you make choices as data becomes available.Its simplest exposition is called the "Monty Hall" problem, from the US TV show Let's Make a Deal. You're shown three doors and told that behind one is a car, and behind two others nothing. Choose the one with the car, and you'll win it. So you pick a door. But then the host – who knows what's behind which door – opens one of the other two, with nothing behind, and gives you the chance to change your choice. Should you? (The answer's at the end.)After founding the company in 1996 with Richard Gaunt, Lynch encouraged risk-taking as part of Autonomy's culture, to stay ahead of the technological curve. As computing power increased exponentially along with the vast amount of information needing to be processed, the company thrived. It has 20,000 clients, with management contracts for giants such as Citigate and Shell. Autonomy also drives the UK police's Holmes 2 system, which can tie together fingerprints, witness statements and police reports.It was known as a lean ship with few management layers – completely unlike HP. The signs that the takeover was not working became clear quite quickly as the head of financing, marketing and several sales chiefs left after the takeoverwas completed in October 2011. "It's not just Mike," said a source who knew of the departures at Autonomy.It is ironic that HP was seen as too bureaucratic. For years it was regarded as a touchstone for innovation – producing, among other things, the inkjet printer, still one of its major income streams.Sources close to Lynch indicated that he and his former team had been unhappy at the scale of bureaucracy after the merger. "It's not the kind of environment that helps this sort of company," said the source. "It was a clash of cultures. Mike was previously dealing with a small, nimble atmosphere, whereas HP is the size of a small city. It's a hard place to do what you need to do."HP is trying to shrink that city with the27,000 job cuts. (That's almost as many people as live in the Australian capital city of Canberra.)Those cuts will be completed by November 2014, and will be used "to boost investment in innovation around [HP's] three areas of strategic focus: cloud, big data and security, as well as in other segments that offer attractive growth potential," the company said.Autonomy, by contrast, was the size of a village: around 1,800 people, split between the UK and US, with key clients in banks and large enterprises.Autonomy's software can sift emails, documents and even phone calls and elucidate the meaning inherent in them. "Our technology allows computers to make sense of human conversations,"Lynch told Director magazine in May 2011. "That's the unfair advantage that allowed two slightly nerdy people from Cambridge to create a FTSE 100 company."HP's former chief executive Leo Apotheker led the bid for Autonomy in August 2011. The deal was concluded even afterApotheker was forced out by a boardroom revoltover his leadership in September, when former eBay chief executive Meg Whitman took over.But it is the failure of HP so far to integrate Autonomy, and to keep its managers happy, that has drawn the focus of investors and analysts. "I think [Lynch] took the money and ran," said one analyst. "If you look at the price HP paid, it was an excellent deal for the Autonomy shareholders. I wonder to what extent he has really put his shoulder to the wheel since."Even so, HP is still betting its future on Autonomy. "This big data field is as hot as mustard," said an HP source. "The challenge is how you scale that business from being $4bn in revenues to $8bn in revenues, which Meg [Whitman] knows about from eBay."An HP executive, chief strategy officer and enterprise software executive vice-president Bill Veghte, will take over the running of Autonomy.HP sources also indicated that the board did not try to persuade Lynch to stay on – a sign that the two cultures, of the entrepreneurial Cambridge mathematician and the Silicon Valley giant, were never going to fit. But everyone will be watching to see which door Lynch next opens.• The doors problem? You should switch. When you originally chose, you had a 1 in 3 chance of being right. If you switch, you have a 1 in 2 chance of being right. Your overall chance, if you switch, becomes 2 in 3. (Try drawing a grid of the options.) Alonger explanation is at Wikipedia.
We have decided to leave the big city behind and move to a very remote location in Wales. After extensive research, it appears the only internet option is satellite broadband, but I am getting so confused by all the options such as renting the equipment, data allowances and different speeds etc. It would be greatly appreciated if you can explain the basics for us less technically minded folk. We currently use the internet to stay in contact with relatives, and a world without internet seems a dull one indeed!Rob PorterSatellites are used to broadcast radio and TV signals over a wide area. With UK services, this usually stretches from the bottom of Italy to the southern parts of Scandinavia, and as far west as Portugal. This is an efficient and cheap use of bandwidth. People who want to receive these broadcasts need a satellite dish to collect the signals, plus equipment to decode and display them – typically a TV set and a set-top box.The same satellites also broadcast data to individual recipients. However, bandwidth is expensive and limited, so this is neither cheap nor efficient. It only makes sense because it can reach areas that are not served by landlines or even 3G mobile services. You can get satellite broadband almost anywhere, as long as you have a clear view to the south.When I used Astra's satellite broadband service a decade or so ago, it was broadcast only: the back-channel for sending emails and requesting web pages was a dial-up modem connected to an ordinary phone line. Today's two-way satellite services use satmodems that can both send and receive data.Also, today's satellite broadband services use variants of the DVB (Digital Video Broadcasting) technology developed for digital television. This is faster and can work with smaller dishes, typically 75cm rather than 1m to 2m across. Even so, speeds are much slower than you would get with ADSL2. Advertised download speeds range from 1Mbps to 10Mbps, with upload speeds of 128kbps to about 2Mbps.The main drawbacks with satellite broadband are contention and latency. Contention comes from the fact that thousands of people may be trying to access the satellite "doorway" (perhaps a 4GB channel) at the same time. If there are more requests for data than the satellite can handle, some users have to wait. Against that, some services offer free data use during the night (after 11pm) when demand is low.Latency comes from the fact that the signal has to travel about 36,000km up to the geostationary satellite, and 36,000km down to the ISP's server, so the round trip is 144,000km. This introduces the slight delay that is noticeable with satellite-connected phone calls. It makes satellite broadband unsuitable for fast-action games, but isn't a problem with most web pages. (Badly written web pages – ones that require dozens of server "hits" – can be a problem, but satellite service providers try to assemble whole pages before sending them.)A third problem is that satellite connections can be affected by bad weather, though that shouldn't be much of a problem with modern equipment. Much the same technology is, after all, used for Sky television and Freesat.To use satellite broadband, you will need a dish and a satmodem, but these can vary from service to service, so it's best to get the whole package from one supplier. You can either assemble and install the dish yourself, or have it done for you. I opted to have the whole thing installed and working. It's sufficiently complicated that I'd recommend this approach to anyone who doesn't know much about it. It's very easy to receive a satellite signal, but sending one requires a higher-quality dish and accurate alignment.Making the purchase is also complicated. The best approach is to set up a spreadsheet of suppliers, check off the functions you need, and enter the prices.The functions you should consider include upload and download speeds, the monthly data allowance, whether the service supports VoIP for making phone calls (possibly with a UK phone number), whether you get a British IP (internet protocol) address, and whether you can get any TV channels from the same dish. In my case, the IP address came from the Astra server in Luxembourg, so I wouldn't have had direct access to the BBCs iPlayer service, if it had existed at the time.Check the limitations in the "fair use" policies and find out what happens if you go over your monthly data allowance, which might be anything from 2GB to 10GB per month. You may be able to buy top-ups for £15-£25 per gigabyte, or the service provider may allow you to keep using the service, but throttle the speed. You can usually start with a low-end package and upgrade it if you find you are using too much data.Either way, bandwidth is expensive. Satellite connections are fine for daily email and web browsing, but a YouTube clip can easily consume 10MB to 50MB. Obviously, it would be foolish to use 2GB to download a single movie. Video chats and internet radio also consume a lot of bandwidth, and file-sharing is silly unless it's restricted to a free overnight service.When it comes to pricing, you will need spreadsheet entries for the start-up costs – satellite dish, satmodem, installation, activation – and the running costs, ie the speed and bandwidth allowance per month. The startup costs can range from about £300 to more than £1,000, depending on the equipment. Some costs may be bundled into the monthly bills. This is much the same as getting a "free" £600 smartphone: you still pay £600 for it, but the cost is hidden in 24 monthly payments.If you don't want to do the work, thenBeyonDSLappears to be worth a go. Its ValuePlus services start at £14.99 per month for a 2GB allowance with a 2Mbps download speed, and go up to £49.99 per month for 12GB with download speeds of up to 10Mbps. Until 31 May, BeyonDSL is offering the hardware for £99.99 instead of £299.99, but that's for the DIY kit. A professional installation costs "from £89.99" and activation costs £50. Yes, it all adds up.While you can use Skype and similar services with BeyonDSL, you can also geta dedicated VoIP servicefor an extra £6.99 per month. This sets up a separate channel so video chats do not come out of your monthly allowance.The BeyonDSL website also has details ofThe Welsh Assembly Broadband Support Scheme. "Qualifying Welsh residents, businesses and 3rd sector organisations can apply for up to £1,000 for a satellite broadband installation from BeyonDSL," until the money runs out.I haven't tried BeyonDSL, but the company is run byMike Locke, whom I've known in a professional capacity for quite a long time. He worked for Amstrad in the 1990s before moving to Astra, where he supplied the satellite service I reviewed in the Guardian. He knows his stuff.In any case, BeyonDSL's new "value" broadband service is actually based on theAstra2Connectservice (akaSES Broadband) using the 28.2°E Astra 3 satellite. This means that if you want TV as well, you'll need a separate dish and a TV LNB for the 23.5°E Astra 2 satellite, or choose one of BeyonDSL'sBroadband/TVpackages. These cost from £24.99 to £69.99 per month.Apogee Internet is an alternative provider of Astra2Connect services using the same satellites as BeyonDSL. ItsMax Valuehome packages cost from £12.99 (2GB at 2Mbps) to £47.99 (10GB at 10Mbps) per month. Services that also includesatellite TVcost from £17.99 to £65.99 per month.A rival offering is theTooway Directservice offered by Tariam Satellite Communications, which is a division of Satellite Solutions Worldwide Ltd. It sellshome packages at prices from £24.99 to £99.99 per month. It also provides UK IP addresses. See theFAQfor more details.Tooway costs more, but it's fast. It uses Eutelsat's newKa-Sat(9° East) satellite, which is described as "the first High Throughput Satellite (HTS) in Europe." Business users can get download speeds of 40Mbps. (Ka-bandsatellites use a much higher frequency than Ku-band satellites and can carry much more data.)Other companies also sell the Tooway service under their own brand names, if you don't want to go direct.You may also find established satellite broadband services that use the Avanti Hylas-1 satellite at 33.5° West. Examples includeSimply BalancedandEthnet. You could include them in your spreadsheet, but they don't look particularly attractive compared to Astra2Connect and Tooway-based services.One last point. When you move to Wales, ask around in the local post office, church, pub etc to find out if anyone already has satellite internet, what they think about it, and whether they would recommend a local installer. If you are lucky, that could be a simple way to solve the problem.
Despite finding like-minded individuals at Konami, Kojima's first couple of years at the studio were far from easy. For one, his directorial ambition was fiercely at odds with its orthodox Japanese institutional hierarchy."Lost World was the first project I was assigned to and the game was cancelled after six months," he says. "It was a serious blow to all of us on the team. I couldn't believe it. After that I began to work on Metal Gear. Konami wanted a war game, because they were incredibly popular at that time. But I didn't want to make the same as everyone else so I started thinking of ways in which I could subvert the genre."It was at this point that Kojima's love for film came into play. "I remembered the film The Great Escape and thought this would be a good approach for something distinct. My first concept was for a game in which you were a prisoner of war and simply had to escape. If you were caught you'd be brought back to the prison. The idea was for a non-combat game."But I had such a hard time convincing people. I had so many things going against me at that time. For one, my first game had been cancelled, so I hadn't released anything yet. Then I was working in quite a large creative group, and I was the youngest. Finally, the type of game I wanted to make didn't exist at that time. The odds were stacked against me and it was very hard to earn the trust of the team."After a few months of failing to make his voice heard, Kojima managed to convince the most senior member of the team to meet with him. "He listened to my frustrations," Kojima says, "and then approached one of the higher-ups in the company who must have seen something in me as he invited me to pitch my ideas for Metal Gear in front of everyone. Everyone in the team saw that it was a revolutionary idea, I think, and from then on, I had their support."The first Metal Gear was developed for the MSX, a home computer format that enjoyed a fraction of the market share of Nintendo's inaugural games console, the Famicom. While many would have seen being told to make a game for underdog technology as a drawback, Kojima turned it to his advantage. "The MSX audience was more technologically savvy than the Famicom audience and as such the game had a much wider influence than it perhaps might have if it had just released on Nintendo's hardware."We spent a long time working on animations that wouldn't have been possible on the Famicom. I would go so far to say that, had I been working in the Famicom department from the beginning I probably wouldn't have come up with the idea for Metal Gear. The features of the systems are so different. And the game concept wouldn't have passed Konami's internal processing, which required more mainstream, family-friendly titles for the Famicom."Following the success of the game Konami commissioned a sequel, this time for the Nintendo hardware. As Kojima had been hired to work in the MSX division, he was kept separate from the Famicom team, only hearing about the project second hand. "I heard about Snake's Revenge through rumours, initially," he says. "I was quite new at the company and had no influence on the other departments."Then one day I met someone on the train who worked in the Famicom department. He used to work for me and was now working on the sequel. He said: 'I don't think this is a true sequel. I think you should make the true sequel.' So on my way home I began to think about what that might look like. Without that encounter I probably wouldn't have pursued a proper sequel, and there might never have been a Metal Gear Solid."Kojima was merely a game designer at that time, and had no detailed knowledge of the budgets involved, but the trust he had gained from the first game caused Konami to pour more money into his sequel. "Because we were making a war game, Konami wanted the experience to be authentic, so every week they paid for us to visit a forest in the mountains nearby. We would dress up in military uniform and play games there. It was a good time."Even at this early point in his career, Kojima's directorial flair was irrepressible, and, without programming knowledge, he found himself frustrated by having to rely on programmers to bring his vision to life. "I would tell the programmers what I wanted to show on screen, when I wanted the dialogue to display, or a music cue to sound," he says. "But they wouldn't do it how I wanted. They would change it slightly to what they thought was best."It was hugely frustrating making games at that time for me. I wanted to control everything. So, after the second Metal Gear launched, I developed my own scripting engine and decided to work on adventure games so that I could have complete control over when the animation played or when the music triggered. That's when I developed Snatcher and Policenauts. It was a way to take creative control back from the programmers."But by 1998, Kojima had been promoted to a managerial role at Konami, and enjoyed autonomy to choose the people he wanted on the team – staff who would complement his vision. One such hire was Yoji Shinkawa, an artist that Kojima hired straight out of college in 1994. "Shinkawa was born to be a video game artist," says Kojima. "As soon as I knew I was to be making Metal Gear Solid, I asked Shinkawa to join the team and his work, as much as anything, defined the series from there on."Metal Gear Solid's development coincided with a technological shift in the medium, that brought with it creative challenges: the move from 2D graphics (and the accompanying gameplay) to the third dimension. Kojima's team developed a 3D engine from scratch for the game and Shinkawa would work from home for months at a time creating the 3D models that would populate the game."Yoji created real life 3D plastic models of all of the game's vehicles and as he used so many chemicals, he had to work from home as the fumes were harmful to the rest of the team," Kojima says. "I would visit his apartment every day to check that he was OK. The first time I went there the floor was covered in plastic parts."The game launched to critical acclaim and commercial success. Its brilliance was in the packaging of the idea, couching the hide-and-seek act of creeping through the shadows in a tight, carefully orchestrated scenario in which one man must infiltrate a radioactive waste facility armed with little more than a radio, a bandana and a packet of cigarettes.Despite the one-man army set-up, Metal Gear Solid's narrative offers more layers of complexity than a Rambo or a Bond movie, Kojima shying away from a chance for a character to soliloquise on the nature of warfare, or the role of solider pawn, those very same figures controlled by the player, on the battlefield.I ask whether the reaction to the game surprised him, or whether he knew he had created something special."We worked so hard on that game that there wasn't even time to think about how it might be received," he says. "We were just making the game that we wanted to play and I don't think I had any expectations that it was going to be a big game. So when I heard it was selling well in America it didn't feel real."I think the first time the game's success struck me was when I came to London in 1999. We visited Forbidden Planet to promote the game. I walked in and the shopkeepers knew about me. I couldn't believe it. It was the most surprising moment in my life."Despite this success, Kojima was most interested in impressing the woman who had supported him from the very beginning: his mother. "About that time I heard that my mother had stopped telling her friends what I did for a living," he tells me. "She was hugely supportive in the beginning. But after a decade or so her friends' sons and daughters all had high positions in big companies. I think she felt a little awkward about what I did by this point."But Metal Gear Solid's success convinced Konami to plough a huge amount of money into its sequel, developed for Sony's PlayStation 2. "We had so much more budget so we were able to go to Hollywood and hire a composer [Harry Gregson-Williams]," he says. "That was a huge moment for me, made all the better because Harry had heard of my games."Following Metal Gear Solid 2's release, Kojima was listed by Newsweek as one of the 'Top 10 People To Watch In 2003'. "After that, my mother began to tell all of her friends about what I did," says Kojima, laughing. "It was sweet. By that time she was 70 years old. But she decided that she was going to play through my games."It took her an entire year to complete Metal Gear Solid 3. She would get her friends to help her. When she defeated The End [a character the player faces off against in one of the game's final missions] she called me up and said: 'It is finished'."Today, there is little that Kojima would change about his career, and he has no regrets: "Looking back, I am thankful that I didn't go into the film industry," he says. "If I had joined that industry I wouldn't have been able to make the kind of films I wanted to, and I really enjoy the games I make now."Indeed, Kojima has lost none of his infectious energy and drive to create. He arrives to work at 6.30am each day, and spends an hour meditating on his life before heading into the business of the day, which is split equally between managerial responsibilities and creative ones. "I wouldn't have taken the managerial role if I wasn't heavily involved in the creative process too," he says. "I have to have a creative role otherwise I simply wouldn't come into work. I try to always have a game design role as part of my responsibilities at any one time. If I didn't have this, I wouldn't be able to do what I do."One part of his daily ritual stems from even earlier than his formative days working as a game designer for the MSX. Now 48, Kojima's father's influence on him is still very apparent in his routine. Every day, no matter how busy his schedule, the designer takes 90-odd minutes to watch a film at his desk. "It's part of my ritual to watch a new film every day, no matter what," he says. "It's important to me."Sensing that the habit is as much a tribute to his father's demand that the family watch a film a day as it is a way to draw creative inspiration from another medium, I venture the question: "Do you think your father would have been proud of what you do?""I don't think..." he says, quietly. "I mean. If he was still alive… Well, I don't think he would be unhappy about my choice."
Fourth up in our Apps Pitch series isKoubachi, one of the latest apps designed to work with a hardware accessory.What does your app do?Koubachi gives your plant a voice and yourself a green thumb! For every plant in our plant library, we have developed an individual care model that considers  the species (a ficus has different needs than an orchid), the annual season and your location (climate zone).You only need to calibrate your plant once and Koubachi will provide you with detailed care instructions in regards to when and how to care for your plant. Koubachi tells you when you need to water, fertilize or mist your beloved plants.What platform(s) is it on, and what plans do you have for any others?Koubachi is currently available as an iPhone app and as a web app (my.koubachi.com). A native Android version is currently in development and will be released in late summer.  You can also use Koubachi in Facebook as a Facebook app. We started with iOS because it had a big momentum when we started with the app.What's the business model and why did you choose it?Great news - the app is actually free - and no ads or in-app purchases to bother users at the moment either. We are a startup active in the field of Internet of Things/Smart Objects and just launched the complementary Koubachi Wi-Fi Plant Sensor that seamlessly integrates into the system.With the sensor, you will get even more precise care instructions and specific alerts measuring soil moisture, light intensity and temperature. Unfortunately, we can not give away the sensor for free - it retails for £99.But don't get us wrong, you can still use the app without a sensor – but only with the sensor do you get real time information on the plant's vitality, the most precise water instructions, light and temperature alerts.Why is the app innovative - what are the key features that you think set it apart and/or make best use of the platform?Koubachi really makes plant care easy and fun. If you don't have green fingers, just rely on Koubachi for your plants and enjoy healthy and blossoming plants in no time.The plant care models were developed and verified in cooperation with plant physiologists from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology - drawing on this model, our Plant Care Engine will calculate a care model tailored to your individual plant and tell you how and when to care for it.At the moment, we have more than 400 plants in the library and we are upgrading it on a continuous basis – the goal being 800-1,000 plants by the end of the year.We also put a lot of emphasis on a nice and clean user interface. Device-wise, we will further experiment with our ultra-low power Wi-Fi model (runs over 1 year with 2x AA batteries) and may think of a satellite version.What's the competition like - what else is out there in this area?There are very few plant care apps out there. However, most of them are based on a simple calendar and made in quite a technical way, which might work if you are already a garden aficionado. We want to give green fingers to everybody and make plant care a simpler, yet more powerful and a fun user experience.What are your future plans?We'd like to integrate a plant doctor into the app as well, so that we can also provide the users with alerts and information on possible diseases of your plant.We also learnt that quite a few people don't know the name of the plant as they may have received it as a gift. So we work on building a easy and fun game into the app that provides you with the name of the plant, drawing on vast community knowledge.Tell me about yourself and your companyWe are a startup company based in Switzerland and the team consists of 10 dedicated people. Koubachi was founded during the dissertation project of the two founders. They furnished their office with a nice plant but did not have an idea how to take care of it or forgot to care for it.As the founders were studying computer science, they thought there must be a better solution for this problem and voila: Koubachi was born.Koubachi started out in 2009 and the app was then launched in Fall 2010. Our newest baby, the Koubachi Wi-Fi Plant Sensor was only born, i.e. launched recently.
With revenues ofaround £348min the first quarter of 2012 alone, GREE may be the biggest social games company in the world. What about Zynga? Its revenues were around £204m for the same period.All of GREE's revenues came from mobile games, and the vast majority of them were made in its native Japan. Yet the company is making a major global push in 2012, acquiring companies and striking deals with Western developers and publishers to put their games on its social mobile gaming platform.This week (23 May) GREE launched the latest software development kit for its community, based on merging its Japanese platform with that of OpenFeint, the US mobile social games community it bought in April 2011. The company says it will have more than 60 games available globally by September 2012.Earlier in May, I sat down with GREE's chief executive Yoshikazu Tanaka for an interview in London. One of the reasons it's taken this long to write it up is a succession of news since then.Hours after the interview, GREE announced that it wasbuying US mobile games firm Funziofor $210m. Then its shares plummeted due to (accurate) rumours that the 'Kompu Gacha' mechanic used in a number of its Japanese games was about to be outlawed. And then came the company's financial results.So, Tanaka didn't talk about any of those things, focusing instead on GREE's broader strategy both at home and abroad.Pre-Funzio acquisition, GREE had 250 staff in its San Francisco office, 50 in each of Seoul and Beijing, and 15 in the UK. The company has launched a couple of games in the US – Zombie Jombie and Alien Family – with more to come."The plan is to take the titles that we've released in Asia and America and get them into the European market, but at the same time, I would like to think we can develop products in Europe as well," said Tanaka, speaking through an interpreter."In America, those involved in the mobile arena seem to have a pretty good idea of what we're aiming for, but in Europe we have quite a way to go in terms of people being aware of GREE and what we're doing."A lot of independent mobile games developers are well aware of what GREE is doing – it's one of the companies they hope might acquire them, alongside Zynga and fellow Japanese firm DeNA.Asked about his company's acquisition strategy, Tanaka played an admirably straight bat considering the Funzio deal was on the verge of being announced. "It's not the case that our strategy is just 'let's buy as many games companies as we can'," he says."The best path for us is to basically make the best products ourselves. Having said that, in various regions there will be companies that have really good intellectual property, or maybe there are companies that have a lot to offer in terms of what we can learn from them. Maybe in those cases, we will be looking to acquire."Or maybe not: Tanaka says GREE has an alternative method, which is to invest in developers rather than buy them outright. The company is looking to make around 10 such investments globally.Mobile overhauling consoleHe is bullish about the potential for mobile social games in the West, based on GREE's experiences in Japan."Three years ago, mobile social gaming wasn't that popular in Japan, but now in terms of the size of the market, it is larger than the console market," says Tanaka."That's a pattern you will see: you will see a similar sort of change occuring in countries other than Japan going forward. The next period will be people moving away from the console and towards mobile gaming."Tanaka also notes that PC-based social gaming never really took off in Japan – social gaming has always been mobile there. "We're in the post-PC era already in Japan," he says, in a nod to the soundbite adopted by successive Apple CEOs.GREE's global challenge is an interesting one. It's trying to get a foothold on iOS, but Apple has its own Game Center community there which – although it could do with plenty of improvement – will be the default first choice for developers.Windows Phone has Xbox Live, and BlackBerry is getting its own games platform courtesy of RIM's acquisition of former OpenFeint rival Scoreloop.Android is currently more of an open goal, albeit one with lots of competition (DeNA's Mobage and Papaya being two of the more high-profile social platforms scrapping for developer and player mindshare). Google may yet opt to launch its own Game Center-style platform, though.Tanaka says GREE's advantage is that it can sit across all of these platforms, although Facebook would be its key rival in that ambition. And then there's Zynga, which isn't just launching mobile games, but is working on its own social games platform that it will open out to indie developers."Our experience in the mobile arena far exceeds Zynga's," says Tanaka when asked about this rivalry. "We've only really done mobile ourselves, and also our platform business has been extremely successful. Everybody wants to be involved in the platform business, but very few succeed."Game on. The fascinating thing about mobile social gaming in 2012 is that all bets are off. Zynga isn't guaranteed to repeat its dominance of Facebook gaming. Facebook has to dance around the likes of Apple when trying to bring its applications platform to mobile.And GREE and DeNA can't – and won't – assume that what's worked so lucratively in Japan will translate seamlessly to the rest of the world. Tanaka certainly seems determined to get the formula right, but the proof will come as GREE's community rolls out globally this summer.
A selection of 18 new and notable apps for you today:SketchBook InkAutodesk made a splash with a demo of its SketchBook Ink app at the launch of Apple's latest iPad. Now it's actually available to buy: a pen and ink drawing app to create images on the tablet and then export them for further work. It looked beautiful in the hands of an expert at the Apple event, but this may be one for the pros.iPadYahoo! AxisOh, Yahoo. Your new Axis web browser is getting the first positive headlines for the company in a long while, yet it's only available in the US. While we wait for a global release, here are the details: available in desktop and iOS versions, Axis offers a more visual spin on search, while saving bookmarks and recently visited pages across all devices.iPhone / iPadTechCrunch - The Inside Story On InnovationTech industry blog TechCrunch may have a global readership, but at the time of writing its official iPad app appears to be US-only. The app includes all posts from the website, as well as tweets and full integration with its CrunchBase database of startups, investors and entrepreneurs.iPadLego Star Wars Battle OrdersLego's latest app is a freebie for iOS based on its Star Wars-themed collection. It's a game that sees you taking on 20 missions in charge of the Naboo Starfighter, Y-wing Starfighter and Millennium Falcon.iPhone / iPadWSJ LiveThe Wall Street Journal has launched a new Windows Phone app, but it's focused on TV rather than newspaper news. The app promises 4.5 hours of "live programming" a day, as well as the WSJ's video archive.Windows PhoneVirtua Tennis ChallengeSega is offering a new iOS spin on its tennis franchise, with 50 opponents to smash, lob and slice against in 18 stadia. There are singles and doubles modes, as well as a full SPT World Tour challenge for longevity. The link above is for iOS, buthere's the Android version.Android / iPhone / iPadDragon BrushDeveloper Small Planet Digital has made several impressive book-apps for bigger brands, but Dragon Brush is its own effort. It's based on a Chinese folk tale about a painting boy, and includes music from members of well-known US band The National.iPhone / iPadGREEThis app isn't new, as such, but it's new to the West, with English support for the first time. GREE is the giant Japanese mobile social gaming network, which has global ambitions in 2012. This is its hub app, offering social features and links to GREE-enabled games. The link above is for Android, buthere's the iOS version.Android / iPhone / iPadZombie Farm 2The Playforge had a big hit with its first Zombie Farm social mobile game, but now it has a sequel. It's still an undead take on FarmVille, but with "MORE BRAINS" – gameplay improvements, jazzed-up visuals and unlimited storage. Players of the original can transfer their farms across.iPhone / iPadAir MailA lot of flying games are better for showing off the graphical capabilities of a device than they are actually fun to play. Hopefully Chillingo's Air Mail has evaded that pitfall, although it does look lovely. The gameplay sees you soaring through the skies delivering, yes, mail.iPhone / iPadNewsLookNewsLook is one of a cluster of apps aiming to help iPad owners find videos to watch – in this case, with a clear focus on news. It pulls in content from more than 50 providers around people, geographies, companies and topics – iPad, Technology, Celebrity News and so on.iPadSlingshot RacingThere's buzz building around this iOS racing game from Crescent Moon and Snowbolt Interactive, with its steampunk visuals and ability to slingshot (hence the name) around corners using a grappling hook. a 64-race career mode and four-person local multiplayer option add to the fun.iPhone / iPadTalkboxBilling itself as "the fastest messenger", this app combines text messaging and group chats with Walkie Talkie-like Push-to-talk and photo-sharing features. It's just launched for Windows Phone.Windows PhoneKids' Music PlayerInventive iOS app Kids' Music Player has made the leap to Android, providing a music player specifically for children. That means they can choose just from their own music on the device, with cartoon animals representing each song – good for kids who can't read yet.AndroidHero's WayAndroid gamers looking for a new RPG fix should check out Hero's Way from Lakoo, which looks to have potential. It offers 60 levels, more than 400 items and weapons, and promises "gorgeous" graphics along the way.AndroidPrima Baby &amp; Pregnancy MagazineNew mums and mums-to-be can now catch up on Prima Baby &amp; Pregnancy magazine on their iPads, with this app that's been launched through Apple's Newsstand. £19.99 gets you a year's subscription, £9.99 gets a half-year, and individual issues are also sold in-app.iPadTiny PlaneLike Tiny Wings but with planes, right? You'd be forgiven for thinking so based on the screenshots to Chillingo's second flying game of the day. The key hook appears to be its 1-4 player online multiplayer mode. That, and the fact that a dog is flying the plane, obviously.iPhone / iPadGolf SquaredRetro pixelly art is all the rage in the mobile gaming world, with Golf Squared applying the aesthetic to golf. Dynamo Games' title – there's also a separateHD iPad version– involves swinging around 2D courses, looking like Worms Golf infused with Tiny Tower.iPhone
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamEroding smartphone subsidies: carriers increasingly adopt customer-unfriendly upgrades &gt;&gt; Stop the CapThe American wireless industry is increasingly taking a page from the airlines, adopting irritating fees and surcharges while curtailing the perks and rewards that used to come with customer loyalty and family plans that routinely run into the hundreds of dollars.Sprint, Verizon, AT&amp;T, and T-Mobile all have a nasty surprise in store for customers who have not upgraded their smartphones in the last year or so: the equipment upgrade fee.  Sprint and AT&amp;T both charge $36 per phone, Verizon Wireless now charges $30, T-Mobile $18.Verizon customers are especially peeved because that wireless company used to reward loyal customers with a $50 credit off any new phone at contract renewal time. Today, instead of getting "New Every Two" discounts, Big Red will charge you $30 for every new phone when you renew your contract.Ow. That's going to slow smartphone adoption thoroughly. Carriers in other countries are doing the same.Motorola will be Google's most interesting project yet &gt;&gt; SplatFIntriguing options laid out by Dan Frommer: it could soar, or be a faceplant, or be somewhere in between. If it soars, the potential is thought-provoking.Internet Explorer 10 will Ship with Adobe Flash &gt;&gt; Windows 8 SecretsTwo years ago, Microsoft declared that the future of video on the web would be powered by HTML 5. Today, however, a lot of web video content is still delivered via Adobe Flash technology. So, in a somewhat surprising move, Microsoft is integrating Flash directly into Internet Explorer 10 on Windows 8 and doing so in a way that does not undermine the safety and reliability of the Metro environment.Flash will be built in, so this doesn't (strictly) break the "no plugins" rule for IE10. And it will update directly in the browser. Still isn't as good for security as not having Flash, though. It's also retrograde - the web is going mobile and Flash is not part of it.Google did not infringe Oracle patents -jury &gt;&gt; ReutersGoogle Inc's Android mobile platform has not infringed Oracle's patents, a California jury decided in a high stakes trial fought by the two Silicon Valley giants over smartphone technology.Very important win for Google. A mistrial on certain elements is still feasible, as is an appeal. So this isn't over. But it's half-over.HP launches multi-year restructuring to fuel innovation and enable investment &gt;&gt; Yahoo! FinanceAs part of the restructuring, HP expects approximately 27,000 employees to exit the company, or 8.0% of its workforce as of Oct. 31, 2011, by the end of fiscal year 2014. The company is offering an early retirement program, so the total number of employees affected will be impacted by the number of employees that participate in the early retirement plan. Workforce reduction plans will vary by country, based on local legal requirements and consultation with works councils and employee representatives, as appropriate.Because people aren't innovative. Cash in the bank is innovative.Resistance is futile? Memristor RAM now cheap as chips &gt;&gt; The RegisterThe HP-popularised memristor device is a form of ReRAM - resistive RAM - and is fairly expensive to make. Metal oxide-based ReRAM technology promises to combine minimum memory speed with NAND non-volatility and be able to provide higher capacities than NAND, which is thought will cease to be usable as process geometries go down past 10nm. ReRAM dies will need less electricity to run and will take up less space than equivalent capacity NAND.A team at UCL has come across a good memristor material while trying to develop LEDs.Permanently unhide Library &gt;&gt; Red Sweater blogWhen Apple shipped Mac OS X Lion 10.7, the "Library" folder located within every user's home folder, which had previously been visible to users in the Finder, was made invisible. To access the Library folder, users must now hold down the option key while selecting the "Go" menu in the Finder.This is probably a good move for the vast majority of Mac users, but for folks with even a small amount of interest in tinkering with the configuration files and caches of various applications, it's an outright nuisance.A quick trip to the Terminal can fix it, or he has an app for that.One Billion Internet Users &gt;&gt;Jakob Nielsen's AlertboxWritten in December 2005:It took 36 years for the Internet to get its first billion users. The second billion will probably be added by 2015; most of these new users will be in Asia. The third billion will be harder, and might not be reached until 2040.Nielsen returned to the post in 2012 to note that the 2bn mark was passed in early 2011, just six years after the first, and four years earlier than he had expected. Most of the growth was in Asia, which should hit a billion in 2012. But he thinks that we won't see the second doubling to 4bn before 2017. He reckons it will be 3bn by then. Make a diary date...Olympic organisers shut down "Space hijackers" protest Twitter account &gt;&gt; Index on Censorship blogThe Space Hijackers had been using an altered version of the 2012 logo on their site and their Twitter page.The Olympic organisers are notoriously prickly about branding, but also about protest, and laws introduced after London won the right to host this years games could potentiallyplace restrictionson protest for the duration of the Olympics and Paralympics.It could be argued that the logo in itself was a justifiable reason for the suspension: but you have to seriously ask: is anyone actually going to confuse the Space Hijackers account for an official Olympic account?We can think of other questions too.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Is it true that Thursday is the new Friday? If so, what do you have planned for the weekend?
Online commenters aren't exactly known for their kind words, but lawmakers in New York want to hold their constituents to a higher standard. A few Empire State lawmakers want to address that problem by doing away with anonymous commenting.Identicalbillsin the senate and assembly require anonymous posts to be deleted by administrators of New York-based websites, including "social networks, blog forums, message boards, or any other discussion site where people can hold conversations in the form of posted messages."The proposal has the tech and legal communities reeling – if not outright giggling."There are lots of good reasons to ban anonymous comments, and also a lot of good reasons to have anonymous comments, and the state assembly weighing on the issue is strange and slightly ridiculous, slightly goofy," Tim Wu, a professor at Columbia law school, told the Guardian."It is hard to imagine the value of a law that would, for example, make Columbia's course evaluation illegal. Not to mention it's an obvious first amendment violation."If the bills pass, website administrators would be required to provide a contact number or email address for people to request anonymous comment removals. Upon receiving a complaint, the website would then be required to contact the original commenter and give them a 48-hour window to identify their posts.If the anonymous commenter chooses not to identify themselves by providing their IP address, legal name and home address within the 48-hour slot, the website must delete the comment.Assemblyman Jim Conte, who co-sponsored the bill, says the bill is meant to combat cyber-bullying.Conte wrote:With more and more people relying on social media and the internet to communicate and gather information, it is imperative that the legislature put into place some type of safeguard to prevent people from using the Internet's cloak of anonymity to bully our children and make false accusations against local businesses and elected officials.A variety of cases prosecuting anonymous commenters have arisen in the past few years, but this seems to be the first piece of statewide legislation.In April,a Texas couplewon a $13.8m defamation lawsuit against anonymous commenters who accused the couple of being sexual deviants, molesters and drug dealers on Topix, a local forum website. The offending commenters were discovered when Topix disclosed the commenters information, including IP addresses.Federal prosecutor Sal Perricone resigned after a justice department investigation revealed that he posted over 600 anonymous commentson a New Orleans news site. Perricone was identified after one of his targets hired a linguist to analyze the comments.Last year,the Indianapolis Star arguedthat shield laws, used to protect journalists, should also apply to the anonymous commenters on their site. The court rejected this argument, but did say in other cases, commenters could be considered sources, and therefore be protected by shield laws. They also adopted theDendrite rule, which gives the commenters an opportunity to respond and demand a significant amount of evidence to prove the comments are illegal.Unlike these cases, New York's legislation places the responsibility on the website owners. Though,as David Kravets of Wired notes, "Oddly, the bill has no identification requirement for those who request the takedown of anonymous content."
Facebook's founder, Mark Zuckerberg, has gone from hero to zero as the stockmarket flotation of the decade flounders amid lawsuits and accusations of greed, hype and deception.The law firm that won a $7bn settlement for Enron's shareholders is pursuing Zuckerberg, his board and the long list of banks advising the company for making "untrue statements" about its financial performance.Robbins Geller is bringing the second class action law suit in as many days against Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs, Barclays and a host of Silicon Valley luminaries including PayPal guru Peter Thiel. A separate suit filed in California on Tuesday by investor Darryl Lazar claims that the social network's share prospectus contained "materially false and misleading statements".The regulators are also closing in. Mary Schapiro, chair of America's main financial watchdog, the Securities and Exchange Commission, said: "I think there is a lot of reason to have confidence in our markets and in the integrity of how they operate, but there are issues that we need to look at specifically with respect to Facebook."After months of hype about the float of the social networking site, which has nearly a billion users across the globe, the appetite for its shares has collapsed since its launch at $38 per share on Friday. The shares are now trading at $31.78, leaving the company that boasts a user base including half the American population is worth £4bn less than it was six days ago, and earning it a new moniker: Fadebook.So while the social network's bankers and its wealthy early investors have profited handsomely from the float, the legal profession is set to cash in.Both lawsuits claim that certain investors had access to information that would have dented confidence in the shares, while others were left in the dark.The problems began on 9 May, when Facebook amended its initial public offering (IPO) prospectus with a short and, for some, hard-to-interpret reference to the fact that while its usage on mobile phones was growing exponentially, the company was finding it harder to sell advertising on its mobile website than on "desktop" pages.Analysts promptly began revising their forecasts. Those included Scott Devitt, who covers consumer internet firms for Morgan Stanley. The bank, as lead underwriter for the IPO, was employed as Facebook's cheerleader-in-chief.According to Reuters – Morgan Stanley has not yet made the date or the content of the forecasts available to the public – Devitt decided that revenues in the second quarter of this year, which runs until the end of June, would be $1.111bn (£705m), down from an earlier estimate of $1.175bn. He shaved full-year forecasts too, from $5bn to $4.85bn. JP Morgan and Goldman Sachs, the second and third lead underwriters, also downgraded their estimates.Participating banks cannot publicly issue research or make recommendations until 40 days after an IPO is priced, but their analysts are allowed to communicate estimates orally to customers. The concern is that this information may have filtered through only to a privileged few rather than the wider public.In a statement, Morgan Stanley said a "significant number" of analysts in the IPO syndicate reduced their estimates after Facebook's disclosure on 9 May, adding: "Morgan Stanley followed the same procedures for the Facebook offering that it follows for all IPOs. These procedures are in compliance with all applicable regulations."The actions of Facebook's underwriters in the days that followed gave no hint of the information they were receiving from their own number-crunchers.On Tuesday, 15 May, the range at which they estimated the float would be priced was raised from $28–$35 to $34–$38. A day later, the insiders and early investors who had invested in Facebook during private funding rounds increased the number of shares they planned to sell during the IPO by a massive 25%.Those most likely to have heard the analysts' downgrades may have decided that the shares would not enjoy the widely expected day-one surge, seen when Google and the professional networking site LinkedIn went public. Basically, for those in the know, at $38 a share, Facebook was a "sell".Smaller retail investors appear to have paid the price. Only 10% to 15% of shares were thought likely to go to small shareholders. Estimates suggest that the bulk of the 84m extra shares released last Wednesday went to investors at the bottom of the tree.Chad Brand, founder of the investment adviser Peridot Capital, had put in orders at E*Trade, one of the underwriters. Brand wrote on his blog: "I did not really think they would allocate us any shares ... What happened? We got every share we asked for."Some of the retail clients who called him that day were getting up to 20,000 shares. Jacob Salzmann, named as a plaintiff in the case being brought by Robbins Geller, spent $124,000 buying shares at $41.766 a piece. By close of play on Tuesday, they were worth just $31.David Joy, an analyst at wealth adviser Ameriprise Financial, wrote in a note to clients: "These developments reinforce the notion that the underwriters did a wonderful job of pricing the offering in order to maximise the profitability to the company's insiders and its private investors but [they] left very little on the table for public investors in the secondary market."
Recriminations over Facebook's stock offering may be rattling Wall Street, but Silicon Valley considers the flotation a ruthless and successful smash-and-grab raid.Entrepreneurs and executives in California's technology hub shrugged off controversy over Facebook's IPO and said the region's tech boom was solid and would continue.But this is isn't a view shared outside the Valley, where experts warned that the debacle is likely to close the window for other tech firms considering share sales.It is too early yet to judge whether Facebook will be a stock market success, but it has got off to an inauspicious start. The social media giant's shares tumbled 8.9% on Tuesday, scrubbing $8.3bn in market value. Since its initial price of $38 last Friday, shares have fallen to $31, reducing the company's value from $104bn to $85bn.Financial regulators are investigating whether banks in charge of the IPO broke rules on the floatation's eve by selectively releasing negative news about Facebook to big investors but not the general public.Other companies in Silicon Valley said if Mark Zuckerberg and his executives were guilty of anything it was shrewdly calculated greed, not overreach, and that the rest of the tech industry did not feel chastened.Vasudev Bhandarkar, a CEO and board member of several companies,including GlobalLogic, a research and development outfit, saidFacebook did not want to leave any money on the table. "It's nothubris, it's ruthlessness. They did the best for themselves and endedup screwing investors. Mark Zuckerberg has been very single-mindedabout the valuation of his company."Steve Blank, a start-up entrepreneur who teaches at Stanford University, said: "They twisted the arms of their bankers and sucked dry the maximum amount of money they could. They went home laughing. Should they have done that? Probably not. But if they can deliver profits all will be forgiven."Blank expected five to 10 more Silicon Valley companies to seek listings within the next 12 months.In New York, Sam Hamadeh, founder of the analyst PrivCo, disagrees. "That sound you can hear now is the soiund of the IPO window shutting," he said. Facebook was supposed to be the IPO that ushered in a new wave of tech share sales, he said. Instead, shareholders had been left with the impression that early investors had made a killing at the expense of anyone foolish enough to buy in at inflated prices.Hamadeh said there were many good tech companies now preparing for IPOs – including Spotify and Rovio, the maker of Angry Birds – that would now face far tougher conditions thanks to Facebook's problems. Those firms and many others had been banking on a successful IPO from Facebook to boost their own share sales."They had all been expecting a halo effect from Facabook's IPO," said Hamadeh. "That's gone."Chicago securities attorney Andrew Stoltmann said in the short-term tech IPOs were in a lot of trouble. "I wouldn't want to be a tech firm looking at an IPO right now. This is so high profile that any investor is bound to be looking twice at other tech sales," he said.Litigation and regulator inquiries are likely to keep the IPO in the headlines for all the wrong reasons, said Stoltmann, making it still harder for other companies looking to go public.The IPO row had created a headache for Facebook's public relations department but the company's core managerial team probably had no regrets, said Bhandarkar. He predicted Facebook's shares would fall to between $20 and $25 within six months but that it would shake off the controversy and continue to thrive. "It's a very, very strong company. I'm very bullish about it."Despite widespread accusations that Nasdaq bungled the floatation, causing multiple delays and frustrations on the first day, Bhandarkar said Silicon Valley would continue to use the stock market."It has not done an unjust job over the past 15 years. They've done reasonably well." GlobalLogic, he said, "would most likely consider Nasdaq" for its own IPO.Most in Silicon Valley believe that Facebook will weather the bad headlines. Aaron Levie, the 27-year-old co-founder of Box, a cloud computing firm a few miles from Facebook at Palo Alto, said in an email interview that Facebook's size and profile made its stock market debut a special case. Other software firms had had successful IPOs in the past year, he said."We've seen very strong public offerings from Splunk, Jive, ExactTarget, LinkedIn and others; Workday's expected IPO will also certainly be one to watch." The best gauge of Facebook's long term viability, he said, would be whether it could continue its pace of innovation. "All past execution points to it doing very well in the future."He may well be right, but the impact on Facebook's younger peers may take longer to shake off.
Nations that carry out cybercrimes and wreak online havoc pose the greatest threat to the future of the internet, the chairman of Google has warned.In a speech delivered at London'sScience Museumon Wednesday,Eric Schmidtsaid the internet would be vulnerable for at least 10 years, and that every node of the public web needed upgrading to protect against crime. Fixing the problem was a "huge task" as the internet was built "without criminals in mind" he said."While threats come from individuals and even groups of people, the biggest problem will be activities stemming from nations that seek to do harm. It is very difficult to identify the source of cyber-criminality and stop it," he said.The Google chairman raised a series of fears in a speech that announced a new initiative to send teachers into UK schools to teach computer science, and called for more people to enter science and engineering to drive industry.Speaking at the museum, Schmidt said he worried about the permanence of information on the internet and its impact on individuals in future. "The fact that there is no delete button on the internet forces public policy choices we had never imagined," he said. "A false accusation in your youth used to fade away; now it can remain forever."Schmidt also used his speech to warn about the rise in governments that censor online material, up from four a decade ago to at least 40 today. Through filtering, governments could build their own "Balkanised web", where people saw different information online depending on who and where they were, without anyone knowing what had been censored."Make no mistake, this is a fight for the future of the web, and there is no room for complacency," he said.Last year in the annual MacTaggart lecture, Schmidt washighly criticalof Britain's failure to teach computer programming in schools. Continuing the theme at the Science Museum, he blamed a lack of exposure to computer science in secondary schools, where only 4,000 students studied the subject in 2011, making up less than half a percent of that year's A-level results.A January reportfrom the Royal Society agreed there was a shortage of teachers equipped to teach the nuts and bolts of computer science, from computer architecture to the concept of an algorithm and writing software. Since then, the education secretary, Michael Gove, hasscrapped the existing ICT curriculum, freeing schools to teach a broader mix of computer science and programming.Schmidt conceded that "rebooting computer science education" would not be straightforward, and announced plans to fund a training scheme for teachers to help improve Britain's failing computer science education system.Working with the charityTeach First, Schmidt said the first batch of 100 "first-rate" teachers would be trained this summer and have bursaries to buy teaching aids, such as cheapRaspberry PiorArduinocomputer starter kits. They will receive on-the-job mentoring and training for a further two years. The Google project aims to help around 20,000 pupils from the most disadvantaged communities.A vocal champion of engineering, in his speech on Wednesday Schmidt also emphasised the need to dispel the "oily rag stereotype" view of engineers. Research by Intel in the US, he said, found that two thirds of teenagers never considered a career in engineering. But simply learning about their roles in making video games and social networking, and in high-profile incidents such as the rescue of the Chilean miners, made half reconsider."Put simply, technology breakthroughs can't happen without the scientists and engineers to make them. The challenge society faces is to equip enough people, with the right skills and mindset, and to get them to work on the most important problems."This is where education comes in. Great scientists are a rare breed, so the more who study science, the greater chance of finding those for whom it becomes a vocation. Although there are some signs of progress, so long as more kids aspire to win X Factor than win a Nobel Prize, there's room to improve," Schmidt said.Last year, Google donated more than £1m to the Science Museum to fund a gallery on the history of communications, from telegraphs to tweets. Part of the money has funded an exhibition devoted to the life and legacy of Alan Turing, often described as the "father of the computer", which opens next month. Among the exhibits will be installations that anyone in the world can control over the internet, including one that allows people to make music through remote controlled robotic instruments.
On his death at the age of 96, the US inventor Eugene Polley has received the accolade he wanted most: to be recognised as the father of the TV remote control. As he told the Baltimore Sun in November 2000: "It&nbsp;makes me think maybe my life wasn't wasted. Maybe I did something for humanity – like the guy who invented the flush toilet."Eugene Polley's natural aptitudes took him a long way. Photograph: APPolley's problem was that his invention, the raygun-like Flash-Matic remote control, was quickly superseded by a more popular device, the Space Command, which was developed by&nbsp;Robert Adler, his colleague at what was then Zenith Radio Corp. This led to Adler becoming known as the father of&nbsp;the remote control, though as Polley observed: "A father has to be present at&nbsp;conception. And if you're not, you're not the father."Adler had, in fact, developed the first TV remote control, Lazy Bones, which Zenith introduced in 1950. This was a&nbsp;controller on the end of a long wire, which meant people could trip over it. Zenith's president, Eugene F&nbsp;McDonald, wanted a wireless version, and Polley came up with the Flash-Matic. This was, essentially, a hi-tech torch. Users pointed it at four photocells positioned next to the corners of the TV screen to&nbsp;trigger actions. They could turn the TV on and off, move to the next or previous channel, and mute the sound.The Flash-Matic was launched in 1955 and was a great success. However, users could forget which corner performed which action, and their TV could respond erratically to, for example, sunlight through a window. As a result, in 1956 Zenith switched to Adler's Space Command, which used small metal rods to generate high-frequency sound waves to control the set. Known as "the clicker", it was used until the early 1980s, when infra-red controls took over. Today's controllers are much closer to Polley's idea than to Adler's.A 1955 advertisement for Polley's Flash-Matic wireless TV remote control. Photograph: AP Photo/LG ElectronicsAdler and Polley were contrasting characters. Adler was a European scientist with a doctorate from the University of Vienna. Polley, a&nbsp;native of&nbsp;Chicago, was a self-taught inventor who worked his way up from a&nbsp;menial job in Zenith's stockroom in&nbsp;1935. Polley had studied at the City Colleges of&nbsp;Chicago and the Armour Institute (now the Illinois Institute of&nbsp;Technology). However, he dropped out to take a job because his mother, Vera&nbsp;Wachowski, was struggling during the depression. Polley's father, described as a&nbsp;bootlegger, deserted the family when Polley was about 10.Polley's natural aptitudes took him a&nbsp;long way at Zenith. He occupied positions including product engineer, mechanical engineer, head of video recording group and assistant division chief. During the second world war, he worked on bomb fuses and radar while on secondment to the defence department. Later he contributed to the development of push-button radios for cars. In all he earned 18 US patents, while Adler gained 180. Both men retired in 1982, when Polley had worked for Zenith for 47 years. Polley, by then a&nbsp;widower, lived with his daughter, Joan, in a&nbsp;cluttered house in Lombard, near Chicago. He always kept an original Flash-Matic to hand.In his later years, Polley felt he did not get enough credit for his invention. In an interview with the Chicago Tribune in 2006, he said: "Not only did I not get credit for doing anything, I got a kick in the rear end." In fact, he had been awarded a $1,000 bonus. When the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences gave Zenith an Emmy for developing the TV remote control, both Polley and Adler collected it.Polley's wife, Blanche, to whom he was married for 34 years, died in 1976. Their daughter, Joan, died in 2008. He&nbsp;is&nbsp;survived by his son, Eugene, and&nbsp;a&nbsp;grandson, Aaron.• Eugene Polley, inventor, born 29 November 1915; died 20 May 2012
A lot of parents are handing their smartphones and tablets to their children to use apps, and a lot of developers and brands are making apps to target them. But how many of those apps are actually being paid for?Asurveyconducted by US market research firm NPD Group suggests not many. In fact, it claims that "there are an average of 12 apps on mobile devices that kids have access to, with 88% of those apps being acquired for free".NPD goes on to note that games are "by far" the most popular app genre used by children, and warns that kids aren't the most loyal app users. "While there are a number of engaging and entertaining apps available to kids, many are used and abandoned after a short time," says analyst Anita Frazier.I'm puzzled about the 12 apps per average device figure, given thatseparate researchfrom Nielsen earlier in the month suggested that in the US, at least, the average smartphone now has 41 apps installed.Even so, the key points here – which are slightly worrying for developers making apps for children – are the seemingly large appetite for a constant succession of free apps.That's no different to the wider apps market, of course. Yet while developers in other areas see in-app purchases (and to a lesser extent, advertising) as their way to make money from this appetite for freebies, both of these models are problematic when it comes to children's apps.Apple has already beensued in the USover the existence of "bait apps", following several controversies in 2011 when children blew their parents' credit cards on in-app purchases within freemium games.And advertising? That's another can of worms when it comes to children's apps, in terms of policing what ads are shown, and keeping to legislation around the world on marketing to children. It's no surprise that a number of prominent kid-app developers make a virtue in their app store listings of not using IAP or ads.Which brings us back to the question of how many companies are making good money from apps for children, in order to build a sustainable business for the future.And if the answer is "not many", is there a risk that over time, the kid-apps market will become more about big brands using free apps to market, say, physical toys or TV shows, and less about developers and startups making original, creative paid apps for children?Which is not to say that the big-brand apps are a bad thing, all of the time. But writing as a parent, as much as a journalist, I hope the original stuff doesn't get squeezed out in the months and years ahead.
Google's executive chairman Eric Schmidt on Tuesday is set for a showdown with the European Commission's antitrust commissioner when he rejected suggestions the search giant will have to change how it presents search results in Europe.Speaking at Google's Big Tent event in Hertfordshire, Schmidt said "we disagree that we are in violation" of European monopoly rules and said Joaquín Almunia, the antitrust commissioner, had not outlined the EC's objections.Almuniawrote to Schmidton Monday saying the EC has identified "four concerns where Google business practices may be considered as abused of dominance". In Europe Google has about 90% of the search market.The two sides have scheduled a meeting for the coming weeks, he said.Schmidt said "the letter is all we've heard from them" – although the EC's investigation opened in November 2010. "We haven't heard the details. I'm not going to speculate on the details."Almunia's letter said the EC is concerned about Google's promotion of its own products over rivals' in searches for items such as shopping, over its copying and re-display of content from restaurant sites, over its restrictions on competitors' ads appearing alongside its own, and the portability of advertising campaigns from Google's Adwords system.The EC has the power to exact fines of up to 10% of a company's global revenues if it determines that a company has abused a dominant position. For Google, that could amount to $4bn (£2.6bn). Microsoft and Intel have fallen foul of its antitrust group, suffering swingeing fines. Almunia has indicated that he would wish to settle with Google without seeking legal recourse in order to have a speedy remedy – but if not, that a full "statement of objections" could follow."He is encouraging us to have a conversation," said Schmidt. "We completely agree [to that]. We disagree that we are in violation. Until they are precise about what areas of the law we have violated, it will be very difficult for me to speculate."
Block 494.33pm:Harkaway:Most dangerous time for a revolution is after the tumult, that's why Occupy is different because it's just reflection of how people feel rather than a political aim. Else we go back to the 20th century revolutionary politics where you have riots and then you have a new set of guys who do just the same at the top of the tree.And that'sthe end - and the end of today's live blog. Thanks for staying with us today, hope it was useful (if it wasn't blocked by your work. Well, we couldn't help Amanda Platell going into remarkable detail about what she found on a porn site.)Block 484.28pm:Q (from BigBrotherWatch):Why do you think people hand over data to companies that governments couldn't get without protest?Q (from Hansard Society:how could we force creators of these platforms to take our protection more seriously? What leverage could we have?Harkaway:as an individual you have very little power to make that happen. As a group, you can demand much more. We as individuals whether in political context or whatever.. that's the only way to affect things. We need to create the institutions that will support the society we want to live in. The only answer is collective action.Keen:re governments/corporations, I'm not sure whether we don't hand it over willingly. We don't have it to internet companies, because certain internet companies, some in this room, can present themselves as being on the side of the consumer… It's not just about will, it's also about commitment. Political groups that have come out of social media have all failed to go from original culture of self-congratulation, that's the challenge.Block 474.24pm:Q:but a lot of companies are upfront about offering free services in return for your data?Keen:who does? (questioner: Google) But where? I haven't found a place on the Google website where it says it does that. LinkedIn's terms of service is 6000 words - you'd need a lawyer to read it. I never read terms of service. Who here reads them? [About 4 people raise hands. Lawyers from Google?]It's easy to vilify companies like Google and Facebook for leveraging, not selling, their data.Harkaway:it's interesting if you're using a service that does that to ask yourself: if I was paying £10 per month, do I value my data higher than that? And I do.Keen:yes but the 5bn people Eric Schmidt is welcoming will be less willing, less able to pay that, so as more and more of the developing world goes online, and the issue of identity becomes more sensitive - I gave a speech in Oslo, I was talking about personal data and impact on society, some Africans came up to me and said this was unimaginable because privacy was so essential to their societies. I fear the biggest struggle is yet to come.Block 464.20pm:Harkaway:Google says young people don't care about privacy, but when asked if they'd let their parents see their phone bills and other stuff they say no.There is a sense that everything should be easy, but easy decisions are the ones we should be scared of because if they're easy then we're probably being sold something. This is why I'm worried about "nudge" - it's pushing people in the direction of what you think they should be doing. Easy decisions are dangerous ones.Q:is there something in how piracy is done, starting with what looked like mass piracy that people shifted towards hiding their identity with VPNs? Are those a precursor of what you're hoping for?Keen:perhaps best exampel is Spotify, Rhapsody, iTunes if it goes to subscription. There has been a shift from dodgy downloads to actually paying. We do have to rethink this idea of free. We don't demand it in any other sphere, so why do we on the internet?Free services like Wikipedia I don't think benefit anyone - they don't benefit the professional because they're not paid.. [missed second part of his response, which looked at the other element] .. We need to be more explicit about business models.Block 454.15pm:Keen:Zuckerberg wants to take us back to the dorm room where we all know each other. I don't want to, I want to go to the city. Eric Schmidt said you'll have to get a new identity when you get older. Zuckerberg only wants us to have one identity.So we don't live in the old world. But I don't want everyone to know what I've done. We all know every kind of example we could throw out there. The world we see online is very spiteful, we all know about people who have had bad stories thrown at them. If we were more generous I might be more happy about the reputation economy.Moderator:for those who grew up without the internet, we're often scared about what will happen to children when they go for university or jobs.Harkaway:it's a parenting issue, you have to do it publicly in the house - you have to share all this at ground level, with children it's something between parents and kids. It may be personally difficult, but if you didn't think parenting was going to be a challenge then someone misinformed you.Block 444.11pm:Keen:I keep getting called a luddite, I keep quoting the fictional Sean Parker in the Social Network saying first we lived in villages, then cities, then the internet.Schmidt says the internet doesn't know how to forget, but humans do, and there are technologies that will learn how to forget. Being human in the digital world is about building a digital world for humans, we're building it.Harkaway:this is something that we collectively have to do, make the social/digital world one where we can do something. Someone said my book is more of a digital activism book, which is true in a sense.In 1990s we were encouraged to think by governments that we would get richer and richer, the idea of free, to believe that was what was happening. But it's not true, there are other costs. The next step is a reasonable understanding of how we want to live and how we're going to pay for it.Keen:I'm not a libertarian. I see two influences out of Silicon Valley - this radicalised ideal of individualism coming out of this [Ayn] Randian idea and the fetishisation of the social. For many of these people the social is just a mirror of themselves. I'm not against the social, but I want something genuinely social, not something that has been fetishized as social so that a group of people can feel better about themselves.Block 434.07pm:Harkaway: there's a tendency to say "we'll wait until someone fixes it" but you have to make the world do what you want.Keen:I think consumers need to be more clear about this, there's a lot of ideology about "free", that we can have free services, free content, it's one of the reasons why the music industry which I defend has been decimated. Consumers think they can have everything, from these free services, and at the same time own their own data. Google has done a good job branding itself as a public utility, but people have to get used to the idea that people have to pay for services which explicitly say they won't do anything with that data.I give Google the benefit of the doubt, with Circles in Google+ they are trying to preserve privacy, more than Facebook, but it's these new companies which are making privacy the core of the product.Qfrom Bill Thompson (whom Keen called out): the dilemma over what we can expect to get and where to get the boundaries...isn't so extreme. What is the common ground between you two?Block 424.02pm:Moderator:asksKeenabout his complaint about digital narcissim, that we should learn from others rather than broadcasting. But there's a more interesting critique, as you go from industrial to knowledge-based, as we have more and more mobility, a radically individualised culture, these platforms become a way to peddle our brands - we're emerging into the reputation economy where platforms are the metric for it.Cathay Pacific in its SF lounge will let you sit in their lounge if you have a Klout score above 50. [Am totally going to SF.] You can't be on Glance unless you're on Facebook. We don't have a choice about Facebook any more. The choice element is less obvious than it seems. Maybe the 1bn poor people and a few hundred thousand rich people can afford not to be on it.. the rest of us don't have any choice.Moderator:do people know not to be online?Harkaway:I have wrangles with Facebook, entered fictitious trips because I can't get the map to get off my page, don't want people to know where I live. It is possible to carve out a space that's your own.We should be worrying about if you live in the city you're more likely to have anxiety or mood disorders and to be schizophrenic. More than the problems people have from social media.Moderator:maybe that's because it's early - maybe in 10 years we will.Block 413.55pm:Keensuggests that we have to move away from the entirely ad-supported business because the needs of it means that it has to keep driving into privacy, and that's not good for anyone because we all need to have something about us that is secret from some people.NowNick Harkaway- argues that we need as humans to have social connections, that the social revolution is a change on top of another revolution.Block 403.50pm:And back again now with Andrew Keen, talking aout his book Digital Vertigo, and Nick Harkaway, author of The Blind Giant (subtitle: "Being human in a digital world").The session: "Good or evil: has the social revolution enhanced or diminished our society?"Keen is well-known as someone who is suspicious about digitalisation turning us into less surprising beings. Harkaway is far less extreme - he's more of an observer.Keen talking, quotes Schmidt about how identity is defined by others rather than ourselves - "I find that troubling, the internet hasn't learnt how to forget".Block 392.32pm:And that's the Eric Schmidt talk done.Comment:interesting how hard he pushed back on the EC antitrust thing. It was the one key point where eh resisted the suggestion completely.Block 382.28pm:Q:Google keeps manipulating search, we'll have a narrower internet, eventually of just one. That must be a bad thing.Schmidt:a lot of people have your concern, so far it does not seem to be true. Personalisation doesn't produce that effect. And you can always search anonymously to get the "generic" result.Block 372.25pm:Q:Google Buzz led to FTC investigation, then there was Street View and the Wi-Fi data grab, and then the Safari cookie hack. Does Google have a management problem?Schmidt. The three things were separate and were not approved or were mistakes. Wi-Fi was a mistake, we reported it when we found out. The Safari one is more complicated because it's about industry practice.Over and over again we are pushing the envelope, sometimes we get it wrong and we apologise.Moderator:but it's about culture, does your culture encourage them to push things where they think they're doing the right thing, but in fact it's illegal?Schmidt:you're making the classic journalistic mistake, taking three things out of 10,000, we've spent a lot of time with our employes explaining these things.The people involved thought they were doing the right thing, but in fact they were doing the wrong thing.Block 362.19pm:Q:CP Snow suggested that industrialisation would remove global poverty by 2000 - are we too optimistic about communications tech?Schmidt:it's had a huge impact on 2bn people who have gone from poverty to lower-middle class. It will give them access, not free but cheap.Q:you feel Google's role is to make sure people have access to information. Aleks was talking about the next step, serendipity, what you start to do with that information. Is the future of Google how people use information or just providing it?Schmidt:what I think future of Google is - these 10 links we provide, trying to go from that kind of answer to an insightful answer, like who is the PM of Britain. Our AI is getting good enough that we'll go from syntax to semantics, and we'll be offering that.Q:when a Google autonomous car?Schmidt:they're amazing to be in... you'll treat it more as an autopilot or cruise control.Moderator:why did you do it?Schmidt:(flapping his arms) because it'sfun. It has nothing to do with search. It's just fun. We have because of Google Maps, accurate maps - Larry thought it was cool.Block 352.15pm:Q:antitrust - EC says it wants remedies - is Google accepting penalties down the line?Schmidt:I had a nice conversation with the commssioner, and a letter on Monday, in our conversation and in his letter and my response we've agreed to have further discussions, the letter is all we've heard from them, we haven't heard the details, I'm not going to speculate on the details.Q:but you must know what they are. Seems like you're not playing ball. If you don't accept these remedies...those four areas.. you're not answering the question here. Surprised you don't have a better response.Schmidt:he hasn't told us... you and I don't agree [to questioner]. He is encouraging us to have conversation. We completely agree [to that]. We disagre that we are in violation in general. Until they are precise about what areas of the law we have violated it will be very difficult for me to speculate. Google actually wants data - give us the precise example, the precise problem, we don't know yet.Block 342.12pm:Q:your social strategy - rumours that Google+ hasn't realised success you were hoping for. And place of social in Google and in the search engine?Schmidt:this is a rumour creating a target we didn't say about internal goals we don't have comparing us to a rival that's very well managed and has been around 12 years. [Facebook? It's 8.]Our Google+ efforts did start in the last 6-12 months... now more tha n150m users. They are using in ways that make sense to us, Hangouts seems to be the current breakout product. For us there's value in creating that social graph. Don't you think YouTube would be better if we have better information about your friends, with your permission? Don't you think we'll have better info for search if we have those signals ... we are already seeing that in our core business. Google+ is doing better than I expected given the difficulty of entering the market.Block 332.10pm:Moderator:Motorola deal, where's it going?Schmidt:we wanted a stake in hardware businesses, we closed as of this morning in Chicago, right now, so there's a meeting of the employees. As part of that we'll be announcing the things we'll be doing with Motorola. More investment in products and a lot more focus on Android and the tools even than they have today.Questions from audience: Index on Censorship: are you saying Google won't push back boundaries on censorship?Schmidt:trying to avoid fight with governments, saying these are principles we care about.Block 322.08pm:Moderator:do younger not care about privacy?Schmidt:younger people don't seem at first to care, but record of what you did 10 -20 years ago used to be hard to find, now it's easy to find.But say you're 18 and you're falsely accused of something, and the trial acquits you. In the old day the records would be sealed, but now even with UK privacy it would be leaked - we've had examples in Britain of things being leaked. Once published, not deletable.Moderator:you'll maintain neutrality about what apps do?Schmidt:for apps, primarily for Android, we won't police them ahead of time unlike Apple which does a sort of micromanagement of the apps ahead of time. We prefer a reactive model.Moderator:why? Because you have less to do or because you favour openness?Schmidt:I hope it's the latter though there's a little of the former.Block 312.04pm:Moderator:the argument is you treat your search results differently for your products - do you?Schmidt:the way we've designed Google is pro-competitive and good for users. If not we want to hear why.Moderator:Is it an attack on freedom of speech?Schmidt:Don't want to get into that, our success is determined by being one click away, competitor on click away, we have to be honest with the user. We have the onebox, so that's where it gets tricky.Moderator:has the privacy question moved on with the argument about apps and privacy agreements?Schmidt:privacy is going to be a concern for a long time, the thing that's different is the way that people publish stuff about themselves, and it can't be taken back. If your born today your identity gets defined more by other people than by you.We think you should be able to edit the data about you in Google via the [privacy] dashboard. There will always be issues around this.Block 302.02pm:Schmidt:if you're going to make a law, make a law that actually works. It's extraordinarily difficult [to make a law that works technically][.The best practices we know is where it's noticed by other people when uploaded and then taken down. Pre-screening would effectively eliminate the internet as we know it.Moderator:EC saying you have to change way you do search resultys. Will you change?Schmidt:we're going to have a meeting. We think we're pretty OK, we're consistent with European and local law. Don't want to prejudge what we'll do before we hear what they want to do.Moderator:this was portrayed as a bit dismissive.Schmidt:we're not aware of anything we've done wrong, but we're prepared to be educated to the contrary.Block 291.59pm:Schmidt:it bothers me as an American [re computer programming] that you have not remained in the lead on this. Computer curriculum has changed.Choice A is that Britain can be a good farming island with good services and pleasant people. Or it can be a knowledge workers' island for the whole world. One is much better suited.The change is well understood. Britain is among the most-connected nations, so you have a lot of things going on for you.Moderator:censorship of porn? What's your advice to government?Schmidt:Each country makes a different decision on adult pornography, but the good news is that even governments you hate, hate child pornography.What I worry about is that such laws are often slippery slopes, such a law has to be defined very precisely and technical can be implemented. In many other countries adult pornography legislation is an attempt to legislate something else.Block 281.56pm:Moderator:so what is Google's role in that?Schmidt:our mission is to get the world's information to you... so we don't judge about that. We care a lot about openness, to the extent that governments are more open and honest we think that's positive.Moderator:the 5bn...Schmidt:In Africa you find children don't have textbooks so they teach using Google, shows you how inventive people are. To the 5bn - openness and transparency in how governments work, connectivity for individuals.Moderator:how does an organisation like Google help stop technology simply putting people out of work?Schmidt:Google is not a jobs program for people put out of work... answer is education. If you thought when you got your job at 20 that it would never change you were misinformed. Retrain yourself to be curious.If you thought the model was learn in college and high school and then stop, you wre misinformed. [Note how he doesn't say "wrong".]Look at the automated loom and what that did to the work of sheep herders [shepherds?]. They got through it.Block 271.51pm:Schmidt:But there are people who are coming out of poverty, it will affect them.You can understand Tunisia revolution as a failure to censor the internet. And Libya had that failure too. It's very difficult for governments that are autocratic and don't have broad popular support to be in power when a lot of people have these devices. That was what Arab Spring was about, that people could express this and lead to revolution.Moderator:could it be an instrument of control?Schmidt:China is an experiment - you can see it as a success of censoring the elite but not most. If you look at Weibo then when they try to cover up a train accident or other crisis people use it to complain, that does put pressure on an autocratic government. Even those sorts of governments are sensitive to shame and embarrassment, you can hold them to some level of accountability.Moderator:what's role of technology in economic crisis?Schmidt:look at where it isn't - it's not uniform, Brazil is growing. Global financial crisis was caused by errors in management of cash. But also nature of globalisation. You can't put a fence around an island like Britain. Globalisation is here to stay.Another factor is rate at which businesses are automating. Bad news is that automation prevents businesses hiring for another job they don't need. To create jobs you have to come up with investments and you have to do that in the face of knowledge workers and financial crisis.Block 261.47pm:Moderator apologises for the heat. It is baking. Well, -ish. Worse for the people outside serving hot food wearing dark clothes under a transparent plastic roof.And now Eric Schmidt, Google executive chairman.Schmidt:If I go through the headlines for the next 5-10 years more people are going to be joining the conversation. About a billion smartphones, now, 2 billion people connected to the internet, so the next 5-10 years according to what estimates, reasonable to expect another 5 bn. Most will be on mobile phones, presently about 5bn mobile phones of which 4bn are featurephones.They will love their smartphone more than you do because it's how they get educated, they will use Wi-Fi rather than data networks.Moderator:how big will the divide be? The internet still will not touch many people.Schmidt:people who have nothing will still get something. You will be able to do things in first world like robotic holography.. but everyone benefits, there's a problem in the world with the bottom 1bn, but they're the hardest ones to solve, they have corrupt governments, high infant mortality.Block 251.43pm:And we're back and waiting for Eric Schmidt to appear and tell us about "5 billion voices" - which we assume is those voice on the internet.Block 2412.35pm:Q from member of the Music Managers' Forum: every year music industry revenues going down, but aggregators like Apple or Huffington Post doing well. We need legislation... a carrot and stickLinehan: the sticks at the moment are terrible. The piracy warnings are terrible, three strikes is terrible.Hyman: better education is the thing. Start respecting people, treat them as fans. On teh aggregator point, I'm torn - the music industry artists have never had that easy a time. Now rather than the labels making the money it's aggregators and retailers. But question is how you get money to artists.Linehan: the love that's out there - when you see a favourite creator launching something on Kickstarter, there was the guy who did DoubleFine Games to get point-and-click adventure games because he couldn't get it funded - raised $3m in 28 days, because he went on Kickstarter with a great video to drum up the business. It's seen as humiliating to go to consumers asking for money, but why not?I think films would get a lot better if people paid leaving the cinema. There's a whole business plan of opening terrible films in hundreds of cinemas and then closing them when the word of mouth gets out.--and that's the end of the copyright panel.Join us again at 1345 BST for Eric Schmidt's thoughtson what life will be like with 5bn people connected to the internet - many of them not via a desktop or laptop.Block 2312.30pm:Taylor: for recorded music if people want to interact with it at home, great, there will be some interactions that people won't like - you might not want the BNP doing things with it, Graham [Linehan] may feel the same. But the original artist needs to be paid.The Limewire case - that was huge. BPI has never said that every illegal download is a lost sale, we said 1.2bn downloads of illegal music files in the UK in 2011. About 7m people regularly downloading, you can get a pretty good picture. In terms of how much that loses you have to do some modelling, so we reckon we lose a couple of hundred million pounds, in a billion-pound industry.But we have to tackle sites like Pirate Bay which are making money off illegal content.Q:Apple is biggest threat to music by taking 30% off every sale?Message: Apple takes a retail margin, you can do a non-exclusive deal, you can sell what you like off your own website for superfans, you can mop up casual punters.. it's there for people with casual habits - others will go through the pain of going through band's site for discovery. Apple for me is a good sales channel, for us as artists technology has made creation of content much easier.Q but their retailing has a different form, they aren't earning that 30%?Yaylor: that 30% cut is high but Apple created an ecosystem that is really good, generating money for our artists. We'd love to see Google launch such a great music service. [Yes, where is Google Music in Europe?]Message: high street is tough, you sell on sale or return and stuff might come back a couple of years later... Internet [retailing] is good.Block 2212.26pm:Q:odd how solution always seems to be more legislation with these problems. People were torrenting The It Crowd in the US because they had no legal access to it.Linehan: another thing I don't agree with is the term piracy and the way it's been co-opted as something to be proud of, it puts people at opposite ends of the spectrum. These people aren't pirates, they'refans, I love them, and if they pay for it I love them even more. Let's find a way to do it.Q:What about remix - the Downfall meme on the net where users take something and do a parody or spoof and get a great deal of enjoyment.Message: It's great creativity, the more people doing that the better. The copyright debate is a heavy one in our [music] industry but we have to evolve it, board meetings at UK Music have to be less about copyright and legislation and move the debate on.Hyman: you have to respect the artist's wishes, if they don't want it messed with, don't. But core issue is that framework for rights doesn't allow that flexibility. I would prefer it if someone like Creative Commons were thinking about how to push this stuff forward. Let people show that they're fans. You need a rights framework - the best I've seen is Creative Commons.Block 2112.23pm:Linehan asked what he would say if independent study found that he could raise income by 50% if illegal downloads were stopped. He says he'd wonder how he could persuade them.Copyright panel at Google Big Tent May 2012: L-R Sarah Smith, Brian Message, Graham Linehan, Spencer Hyman, Geoff TaylorSpencer Hyman says games industry saw what was coming early on - moved away from something you put in a machine and press play. So with World of Warcraft you have to deal with what the internet enables, you have to be in the community, you have to do more.Block 2012.18pm:Back to Taylor: I don't share Spencer [Hyman] that copyright isn't fit for purpose, copyright's doing what it should making sure people get paid, Graham gets his royalties from his programs.At the BPI we run an innovation panel with labels and startups and try to get new ideas for launches. If you do nothing at all though about piracy it's very difficult for those tech businesses to grow - we've got to work this out with business solutions, why is it that when you search for Radiohead MP3 all the results are illegal, the top result should be the legal one.Brian Message: for years the suggestion is that copyright is this great tool to finance becoming professional artists - but we can now crowdsource funding for our acts, we can put out music and get people in hundreds of companies, and say "come and be a part of the act", that removes copyright's stranglehold.Block 1912.13pm:So, over to Geoff Taylor. Things we've really turned a corner, more digital music services in the UK than anywhere in the world - they're going well, about 80. But still music industry revenue is declining, and when talking to session musicians, others, they're feeling it - albums that used to sell 100K now sell 30K. We do have to get to grips with people making a lot of money from piracy and get that back into the legal business.Brian Message (Radiohead manager): what I'm seeing and experiencing is that professional creators have huge opportunities for revenue, recorded music is smaller but capability for discovery is allowing us to grow our business in an exciting way. Having direct access to artists and consumers - frictionless as possible - that's the nub of it.Spencer Hyman: have a look at the "Gutenberg Parenthesis" - before Gutenberg, you could all be performers and the good ones got paid. Then Gutenberg meant good writers could get paid and copyright was a wall around it. What Brian [Message] is saying is right - but challenges what copyright is built on.Nobody talks about search engines in these copyright reports like Hargreaves - these key technologies should tell people things about things. Art has never had anything like radio, telling you what to do and find.Block 1812.09pm:Moderator:40bn music files shared illegally online last year. So that means that creators are losing hope of making a living from their creations - but we have to protect. So Graham Linehan - you have to get paid, surely.Linehan: yup. (Pauses a long time.) I came here because there are certain things about the way the entertainment industry has been talking to me as a consumer that I find offensive. As a creator I did a search for IT Crowd and someone said on Twitter "downloading the IT Crowd", and I said "buy it if you like it", and he said "what's it to you" and someone else said "He wrote it, dude." I don't see why we are constantly resorting to holding a gun to their head and telling them what to do. 20 years ago there was a campaign in the Independent for cheaper CDs. Pre-internet, it didn't get a head of steam. And the music indsutry response was "no". Now, the consumers are the ones who when asked "will you stop downloading" are the ones who say "no".Didn't want to suggest ways of solving it, but to suggest we move on past these twin poles.Block 1712.07pm:Next up is a panel on Copyright issues - participants:Graham Linehan, writer of Father Ted and other works;Spencer Hyman(Artfinder, a London startup to help folk find art; formerly at Last.fm);Brian Message(chairman, Music Managers' Forum, and Radiohead's manager);Geoff Taylor, chief executive of the BPI, aka record labels in the UK.Block 1612.00pm:Q:text processing: ....copyright stands in the way, what will you do?Willetts: it's a tricky challenge, Hargreaves [Report on copyright] has helped, providing framework for academic data... work on common standards... there's a lot of work going on here - this goes back to academic publishing, one of the things they do is common standards that makes their texts all accessible. Government absolutely recognises this.Q:someone who graduated 10 ya, was refused bank loan because of his debt - now earns as much as an MP but has student debt.Willetts: what was your debt? [£12-13,000 startup loan.] At the moment in the current system you pay back 9% on earnings above 21K. It's an obligation to pay back through the tax system. But you're right about the threshold, so they will in future pay back less than you do. Financial services say they look at fixed monthly outgoings - 9% on 15K against 25K salary (he has to do the maths in his head - brutal in front of this audience) - you're paying back for longer now but we smooth it out.Q:but bank says it's debt, you can't get loan for a startup.Willetts: it's not a debt that's taken account of in bankruptcy - it's not a mortgage or credit card debt or bank loan, it's saying you'll pay a higher rate of income tax until you have paid back your higher education. Financial services looks at monthly outgoings. [Yes, but that's an outgoing.] It's not debt, not commercial debt.And there you go - end of session. That seems to be an unsatisfactory answer - bigger debts mean bigger monthly outgoings.Block 1511.57am:Q:suggestions that we need 200-400K more people with IT skills in the next years... that there's less interest in it in schools - computer science graduates among highest unemployed rate [are they? Surprising]. What needs to be done?Willetts: the problem was being discussed by experts until Eric Schmidt with his McTaggart lecture brought it into the open, that energised the debate. We had done some things, like competitions for teenagers to proposa and write apps for mobile phones, and Google and others trying to bring curriculum to life, but computer science curriculum just seemed catastophitcally to be very boring and putting people off. Michael [Gove] is dealing with this at a school level, we are promoting links with business and universities.Moderator:when see this in schools?Willetts: Michael [Gove] has cancelled old one, moving to one where we have a creative constructor-producer model, understand that over next year it will evolve into a proper ccurriculum.Block 1411.55am:Q:should taxpayer-funded research be published in openaccess and free publication?Willetts: in favour of open access to publicly funed research. Academic journalis add value, they aren't parasitical extractors of rent, we have asked Janet Finch to report to use on how we get there. One route is the gold route - where you say instead of academic research being paid for by the university library or individual, part of the research grant includes a payment for release of the data.Second model is green access, where you require that the material be available publicly but in order for the journals to remain viable you have a half-life rule - six to 12 months - where it's available for subscribers and then becomes available. Janet Finch will advise, will probably be a mixture of gold and green.Block 1311.50am:Shift to virtual world going to transform everything about his work as a minister. Will still have physical places, but eg some law faculties don't have library because it's online. Different institutions have different mix of physical and virtual - eg Open University.But also research - last year 1.7m research article, 400K of them in British-based journals. We're trying to get our heads around the big changes being made here, announcing today opening of Open Data Institute.Next generation of research going to require data mining and text mining so that medics for example who can't physically be expected to read articles on their specialism will be able to have sophisticated sorting and ranking to access information they need.Looking at scientific inquiry, next paradigm will be based on very large datasets. Scientists are in the lead in handling very large datasets - Hubble telescope or Large Hadron Collider are massive datasets.In UK still have specific skills in production of software - want more links between academics that have skills and companies that need skills, eg for prototyping of car parts. Most exciting thing that the experts say is that - rather like the Persian king who offers an inventor a reward - he asks for a grain of wheat on first chess square, then 2 on next, then 4 then 8... we are now on the second half of the chessboard...(speech ends - had been expecting more on open access. Perhaps in the questions.)Block 1211.45am:Willetts: challenge as university minister is about getting right balance of teaching and research. Think it's right to expect graduates to pay back once earning more than £21,000 per year. That shift away from grants from the government and to payback by students has enabled increase in cash to teaching in universities in this Parliament.Higher education minister David Willetts speaking at the Google Big Tent event, May 2012Also more cooperation between institutes.Block 1111.39am:Willetts points to paradox of being in a room of experts in the web who come to a physical place for the exchange of ideas.Willetts: looks tanned, light suit, no tie, is that a linen shirt? Really not the picture of a Whitehall minister that you would have had a few years ago - which would have been dark blue suit, white shirt, tie. And glasses, in Willetts's case.Takling about clustering and how in a mobile society people still need to meet up to exchange ideas. Important for science and education, creativity comes from dense clusters. There are small clusters and larger ones: one definition of small cluster is place where you can change jobs without changing where you park a car.We cluster to be innovative... Tech City is about that, Google Shoreditch campus, commitment to clusters from government.Bigger clusters.. places where you can move jobs without having to move family.One of the theories about Silicon Valley is that the striking down of non-compete clauses in contracts helped creation of jobs there. Academics and VCs in Oxford and Cambridge ask for fast transport link between Oxford and Cambridge - used to have rail line, now torn up; want to be able to move Oxford-Cambridge-London without moving family.Block 1011.38am:We're back with David Willetts, the higher education and science minister, speaking (Nicknamed "Two Brains" in Westminster, we're reminded.)Block 910.58am:Porn debate over. Conclusion: no conclusion. Sarah Hunter, Google's public policy director, says obligatory filters are a bad idea. Amanda Platell of the Daily Mail says they're a good idea. Index On Censorship and TalkTalk don't like much either.In about 20 minutes we'll have David Willetts giving a keynote. Stay tuned!Block 810.44am:Hunter of Google: my son is a brilliant user of the iPad.. think we are the generation that is at sea on this one. (Says she grew up without internet, but her kids have grown up with it.)(Hunter by the way ishead of Public Policy, Government and Parliamentary relationships for Google in the UK.)Hughes of IoC points out that what was declared obscene a century ago is now accepted as OK. (True, though it's a bit hard to know what will and won't be acceptable in a century - think of the language you can't use now that you did then.)(Certain element of talking past each other in this. Nobody is quite engaging. IoC feels as absolute as does the Daily Mail position enunciated by Platell.)Q:we find that education is the best filter (from an Australian journalist) - that using mobile gets kids engaged. That some schools are taking filters down. And makes the very good point that "it's a little hypocritical to be discussing this without a teenager up there on the stage." (Best comment of the day.)Q:isn't this really an education problem, it's not a technological solution.Amanda Platell: along on the Google Big Tent stage in her support for filtering. Photograph: Christopher Thomond/GuardianShow of hands about whether govt should legislate a TalkTalk system - a handful of hands. About three. Should you go further to Daily Mail system? Only Platell's hand is up.Block 710.38am:Someone from Cabinet Office asks for empirical evidence on this. Sarah Hunter of Google says that it's rather hard to find the control group where you have a parent saying "sure, test porn on my 7yo."Q:we have age filters on movies. You need ID. Why is there such a concern about censorship if we apply filtering.Hughes of IoC: these filters are blocking across the board, if you say everyone who has computer connection has to have default switches on that's like saying nobody can go to over-18 film or browse bookshop.Hunter: definition of porn and porn sites isn't set, there's no previewing of porn sites to get age ratings. And block lists are drawn up in secret. Mobile filters - show sites blocked by O2 and Orange... what is worrying is that when site owner says that they're legal the carriers can't unblock them.Platell for : isn't that something you can legislate against, you know who censors are for films, you should know what's being blocked.Hughes of IoC says that proposals are like keeping everyone out unless they opt in, ie proving you're over 18.Moderator:I was going to go to Twitter but #bigtentuk seems to have been spammed on Twitter...Block 610.30am:Platell says it's about being able to block stuff that is gross.Hughes of IoC says we shouldn't be putting default switch on that puts adults into same category as children. If it's too hard (oo-er) for them.Moderator:is pornography a big driver, how much money does Google make out of pornography?Sarah Hunter of Google: we don't go out of our way - but it's legal, automated systems, allow people to advertise against legal content. As long as we put in sufficent safeguards for children. Pornhub [getting huge amount of publicity today....] wasn't initially blocked by TalkTalk filters - so filters aren't perfect, can't give parents a sense that it's all perfect.Q from floor: is legislation to opt in for porn ultimately futile?Sarah Hunter: SafeSearch can do something but for 14yo boys there's a limit on what you can do. Parents have to sit with their children when they're very young and have grown-up convos. Legislation would be a mistake.Heaney of TalkTalk: yes you do get over- and under-blocking.(Everyone seems to be agreeing that it's really very difficult, though Platell is out on a limb in wanting obligatory blocks and legislation.)Hughes of IoC says her worry is about government saying there should be a filter on legal content.Block 510.23am:Now getting into the question of whether you would have political filters, morality filters, and so on. Heaney of TalkTalk says that you can do blocks on games sites. Nobody has quite gotten to Platell's point yet about accessibility, or got an answer here.(Just as a reminder, I tried to tackle this question withWorried about online porn? Don't regulate the net – regulate your kids. Not sure if Platell has read it.)Q from father of an 8yo: what's missing is personalisation - devices, context of the person's use. Network filtering can transcend location and control what child sees on multiple devices but it's up to the parent - don't need ISP making decision. Education is important.Q "someone saying Mail is leading campaign against porn, I've gone onto Mail Online... steamy sex scene with Carey Mulligan, watch the video now."Platell: I wouldn't have a problem with my kids seeing this today, but I do have a problem with Pornhub, Leonardo di Caprio isn't going to be tying her up...Graham Linehan, from the floor, suggests search on Mail Online "all grown up" because that's about children who are now legal. Mail Online regularly does articles about child stars who are now 16. It means "this person is now available for sex." Says it's ironic that Mail is running anti-porn campaign while running pictures of people in bikinis.Block 410.18am:Platell quotes stats about how many children have seen porn before age of 16. Concern seems to be that it's affecting middle-class images. "These images are so damaging". Moderator asks if she's in favour of censorship. She says yes, in some circumstances.Google's Sarah Hunter says "we believe children shouldn't be seeing porn online. We don't want children to be unsafe online. Google also says: it's not that easy. Solutions being discussed aren't perfect. There are problems - deskilling parents by giving them solution that aren't themselves perfect. So most important thing is making sure parents know the risks children face online, give tools to protect children.Q:can a clever teenager get around it?Andrew Heaney: yes - it's one of many things.Amanda Platell looking like she owns the sofa.Lawyer Mark Stephens, former defender of Julian Assange, says that this is just an update of the porn mags of the earlier days.Platell says that the images are completely different. Pornhub had pics of a woman being stripped and then forced to perform oral sex on another woman while.... OK, that's quite graphic, Amanda.Block 310.12am:First up is a session on pornography, Krishnan Guru-Murphy moderating, Amanda Platell from the Daily Mail leading for the anti-porn brigade: says she looked up Pornhub last night. Unsurprisingly, it was a bit shocking.Andrew Heaney of TalkTalk saying it's too easy to slip over into censorship, that you shouldn't have a default block.Block 2The Big Tent is at the Grove Hotel in sunny Hertfordshire. And boy, it's hot. Apparently last week they were ordering industrial heaters. Quick check on the weather forecast, and they swapped the order for industrial air conditioners.Block 1The Big Tent is going on now - and here's the liveblog.
Facebook, Morgan Stanley and some of the biggest names in Silicon Valley are being pursued over the social network's disastrous share sale by the law firm that won a $7bn settlement for Enron's shareholders.Robbins Gelleris co-ordinating a class action lawsuit alleging that Facebook and its bankers misled investors about the true state of their business while informing a handful of privileged clients about the company's true prospects.The lawsuit, filed in New York, names Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's founder, as a defendant, as well as top Silicon Valley investors Peter Thiel and Marc Andreessen, and Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan and Barclays Capital.It comes asUS regulators announced they are investigating the handling of Facebook's initial public offering (IPO). More shareholder lawsuits are expected.In its suit, Robbins Geller alleges that Facebook bankers cut their forecasts for the company's revenue growth during the middle of their IPO roadshow – when bankers and Facebook executives including founder Mark Zuckerberg met analysts and potential investors.Reuters reported this week that in the run-up to the IPO Morgan Stanley told some major clients that consumer internet analyst Scott Devitt had cut his revenue forecasts for the Facebook.On Tuesday Massachusetts' secretary of commonwealth William Galvin sent a subpoena to Morgan Stanley demanding more details.Analysts are required to act independently of investment bakers, a stipulation that followed Wall Street's settlement with US regulators after the dotcom bubble scandal. Speaking on condition of anonymity, another internet analyst said it was highly unusual for an analyst at an IPO's lead banker to cut forecasts so late in a share sale.Facebook had previously amended its prospectus (known as an S-1 filing) to warn that its users were increasingly using mobile devices and the firm, as yet, makes little money from those users."The true facts at the time of the IPO were that Facebook was then experiencing a severe and pronounced reduction in revenue growth due to an increase of users of its Facebook app or website through mobile devices rather than a traditional PC such that the company told the underwriter defendants to materially lower their revenue forecasts for 2012," according to Robbins Geller's suit.The defendants "selectively disclosed" to "certain preferred investors" the cuts in their own forecasts for Facebook, the suit alleges.In a statement, Morgan Stanley said: "Morgan Stanley followed the same procedures for the Facebook offering that it follows for all IPOs. These procedures are in compliance with all applicable regulations."After Facebook released a revised S-1 filing on May 9 providing additional guidance with respect to business trends, a copy of the amendment was forwarded to all of MS's institutional and retail investors, and the amendment was widely publicized in the press at the time."In response to the information about business trends, a significant number of research analysts in the syndicate who were participating in investor education reduced their earnings views to reflect their estimate of the impact of the new information. These revised views were taken into account in the pricing of the IPO."Robbins Geller is one of the most successful class action law firms in the US and helped Enron investors recover over $7bn from the institutions that helped finance the Texan energy company ahead of its collapse.Andrew Stoltmann, a Chicago-based securities attorney, said Facebook would be "sucked into the vortex" of this lawsuit but that Morgan Stanley faced the greater risk."Federal securities law is very clear – it requires full disclosure. Any information about earnings or revenues would have to be disclosed equally. Ultimately the underwriter, which has done hundreds of these things, is responsible," he said.
Six months after Hideo Kojima joined Konami, one of Japan's most respected video game studios, he was asked by a university friend to be best man at his wedding."The groom stood up to introduce me. He said: 'Welcome everybody. This is Mr Kojima. He's a very talented and otherwise likeable person. But I am sorry to say that, for some unknown reason, he has decided to join a video game company.' Everybody laughed. You see: working in the games industry was seen as a very low status job at that time. There wasn't even a word in Japanese for the job of game designer back then. I would lie at parties. I told people I worked for a financial firm ..."Born to well-to-do parents, Kojima – the creator of the multi-million selling Metal Gear series, and vice-president of Konami Digital Entertainment – was the youngest of three children and a high achiever from a young age. But he was also a dreamer."When I was small I was always thinking about different worlds in my head," he tells me, as we sit down over breakfast in a boutique London hotel in Soho to discuss his life and career on this, the 25th anniversary of the genesis of Metal Gear."I was constantly making up stories about the things around me. I'd find myself laughing or crying at seemingly random things and people wouldn't understand why. In Japan, there are storm channels on either side of the main roads. There were so many times when I'd fall into these ditches because I was lost in stories as I was walking along. It's still dangerous for me to drive. I've driven into the gate outside my house numerous times."Even now, while we are talking, I find my mind wandering if I'm not careful," he says, with a warm smile. He motions to the untouched cappuccino on the table in front of him: "Take this coffee cup, for example.""OK. What's the story of the coffee cup?," I ask."I am imagining a story in which there's a massive coffee cup that we're all sitting inside now. It's not really a story, I guess, so much as a vivid picture. But this! This is how my mind works."A born storyteller, Kojima's parents encouraged the gift, not least through their own love of cinema. "I was born in a countryside town," he says. "But when I was four years old we moved to Osaka. It was a huge environment change and after that I would spend much more time at home, watching television or making figurines."It was during that time that my parents introduced a family tradition: every night we would all watch a film together. I wasn't allowed to go to bed till the film had finished: the opposite of how it is for most children. My parents were huge fans of westerns, European cinema and horror in particular. They wouldn't just show me kids' films. I'd even see the sex scenes."At the age of 10, Kojima's parents began to encourage him to watch films by himself. "They would give me money to go to the cinema by myself," he says. "I was allowed to go on the condition that I came home and discussed the movie with them afterwards. I had to buy the film brochure and bring it back with me. Then we would talk about the movie's themes and direction; what I felt."This love of watching film soon combined with Kojima's own creative spark and, using a friend's 8mm camcorder, he and his high-school friends began to make their own short movies. "To be honest, my friends weren't really as into making films as I was," he says, with a laugh. "But I convinced them all to make some zombie films with me."You see, every year there was a culture festival held at our school. My idea was to make a zombie film, show it there and sell tickets in order to make some money with which we could buy more films to watch. We sold tickets for about 50p. But we didn't make enough money to buy even one film."Kojima is now known for his theatrical games, his most famous title – 1998's Metal Gear Solid – pioneering the kind of grand 3D storytelling in games that is commonplace today. As a young boy there were glimpses of this same motivating creative ambition."There was one film we tried to make that was set on an island," he says. "My idea was there had been a plane crash and a bunch of high school students had survived it. I wanted it to be like Robison Crusoe."We managed to trick our parents into giving us the money to go on a four day trip to an exotic island off the coast of Japan. But when we arrived we spent the first three days swimming in the sea. On the final day we realised how little time we had left so I changed the plot … to another zombie movie. The idea was still that the plane had crashed and high school student had survived. But this time they found zombies on the island.""Did you show your parents the film?" I ask."No," he replies, breaking into a generous laugh.It was in the midst of this time of his life, watching movies and starting out on the journey to create them, that Kojima's world fell apart with the death of his father. "I was just 13 when he died," he says. "It was hard and lonely but, in a way, it strengthened my resolve to become a filmmaker."Aside from the loss of his father's support – of someone to talk over the latest Spaghetti western or European horror flick – the odds were stacked against the young Kojima's calling. "I desperately wanted to make films professionally," he says. "It was so difficult though. There were no film schools near where I lived and, beyond that, the budgets for Japanese films at that time were very low, so I didn't think I'd be able to make the kind of films I was interested in. That's pretty much how I came to work in games, I guess."Kojima was studying economics at university when he made the decision to join the games industry. "I wrote novels in my spare time while studying," he says. "Even this pursuit was related to film as I wanted to win awards for my novels and thought that if that happened perhaps I would get the chance to make a movie. But I had no friends that were interested in cinema; nobody to encourage me in that career. It was around that time that I saw Nintendo's Famicom for the first time. Immediately it struck me that this might be another route into making film-like experiences.""Do you feel like you settled for second best, then?" I ask him.Without pausing, he replies: "You know, right away I thought games could become something important in the future. That's what swayed my decision. I wouldn't describe it as settling so much as working with what was in front of me. And while it's true that I entered the games industry specifically because I couldn't find a way into movies, I soon fell in love with games. It's so different to film: it's interactive and you need to understand people in a different sort of way. I soon fell in love with the art of making games. But at the same time, I do still harbour the ambition to make a film in the future as well."Despite the success of Space Invaders in the arcades, and the release of Super Mario in 1985, Kojima soon found that the Japanese games industry wasn't socially frowned upon. "When I announced my decision, all of my friends and lecturers begged me to reconsider. They thought I was crazy, to be honest.""It was only my mother who told me that I could do whatever I wanted to in life. She was the only one."Despite Kojima's defiance in the face of his friends' disdain, he wasn't immune to a sense of embarrassment about his chosen career.  "I began looking for a company to work for and settled on Konami, not because of the type of games they were making at the time, but rather because they were listed on the stock exchange," he says. "They were the only games company to be listed at the time; not even Nintendo had that accolade. I guess it was a status thing, but I thought working for a company like that might help people to view my vocation in a more positive light."I wonder if Kojima also drew inspiration from those negative attitudes that he encountered, a resolution to prove everybody wrong. "Yes, definitely," he says. "Right from the start I believed I was creating art. I felt like the world was waiting to see what video games could be, what they could become. It was a huge incentive to do my best, to show them."When Kojima joined Konami, he found a community of like-minded individuals, many of whom had arrived at games either through failure or a lack of opportunity in other creative industries. "There were many people joining the industry at that time who wanted to make films, to be directors or to write comic books but, for whatever reason, hadn't been able to 'make it'," he says."Some were in a band and had released a record but it hadn't sold well. Others were struggling artists who wanted their own manga series. The industry was full of dropouts, people who felt like games offered them another chance. I met many people in that same situation; we bonded together through that in some sense."But there wasn't a negative spirit with it at all. At Konami there was this feeling amongst us all that games were somehow important to the future. We believed in the future of the medium and that drove us to create the best possible work."•Hideo Kojima interview part 2
It is three trading days after Facebook went public, and we now know that the IPO will live forever in the history books – just not in the way anyone had planned. Had Facebook openly set out to sabotage its own IPO, it could not have invented a better ormore remarkable debacle: a tale of financial chaos fit for history books.Facebook stock has lost 20% of its value in only three days. In that alone, it is not remarkable. Large IPOs rarely perform well just after going public. Fund manager Och-Ziff, for instance,fell 24% in its first week as a public company. (And thereafter: Och-Ziff went public in 2007 at $32 a share, andnow trades at just over $7).No, what makes Facebook stand out is that, at nearly every junction where wisdom, care and moderation ought to have intervened, they did not. In law enforcement, this is called a "smash and grab" – just knocking out the windows and taking everything in sight. On Wall Street, the disregard of the IPO for normal investors brought up a vulgar old traders' saying: "Pigs get slaughtered." Translation: greed gets punished.As far as autopsies go, this is a complicated one, from the spiritual to the mechanical.There was gracelessness: Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's CEO, made it clear for months that he disdained the company's IPO, and deigned to show up to only one meeting with potential investors. That couldn't have done much to convince those investors to believe that Facebook took the Wall Street system seriously enough to give them a good return on their investment.There was greed: executives and insiders made the IPO primarily a way to enrich their own fortunes – rather than the company's – and their stock dump accounted for 57% of the shares sold in the offering (reinforcing the old joke that "IPO" stands not for "initial public offering", but "insider profit opportunity"). To pour more money in the pockets of these insiders and the company coffers, Morgan Stanley, the lead underwriter, hiked the price the company was charging investors – $38 – and flooded the market with tens of millions of extra shares. (The investment bank then had to rush back into the market and buy millions of those shares to artificially support the price of the stock on the first day.)Pricing an IPO correctly – to predict, in essence, its fair market price – is a delicate art, which is supposed to balance how much investors may like a company with how much they're willing to pay for it. For instance, you might buy your favorite cereal at $5 a box; but would you buy it at $20 a box? Probably not. You don't like the cereal any less; you just don't think it's worth that large a chunk of your budget for groceries. People love Apple enough to pay $400 a share for it. But if Apple were valued the same way as Facebook, each Apple share would be worth more than $3,000.There was hubris: throughout the process, Facebook made it clear that the company believed it was different from other companies. It could straightfacedly value itself at $104bn even though it had just $3.7bn in revenues, for instance. It angled for the title of the "the People's IPO" and promised that one-fourth of the shares sold would go to regular mom-and-pop investors – even though the putative "people" would be buying overpriced shares from insiders eager to cash out. JP Morgan, one of the bank's underwriters, added to the hype by slapping Facebook logos all over its headquarters like a school girl doodling the class hunk's name into a notebook.There was incompetence: Nasdaq, the company's chosen exchange, froze up and delayed the IPO three times in the space of an hour because it couldn't handle the volume of orders from investors – a good number of whom appeared to be rushing for the exits to sell the stock.And finally, there may have been something in violation of securities laws.The most respected publications in the US reportedthat Facebook's chief financial officer tipped off research analysts at the company's three biggest banks that its upcoming financial results would be lower than expected. The analysts then took the incredibly rare move of tipping off large investors to the specific negative impact this would have on Facebook's stock.Small investors had to resort to reading less educational entrails: a vague blurb in the latest regulatory filing about Facebook's trouble breaking into the mobile market.If this last is true, you can forget all that guff about "the People's IPO". US securities laws are very strict about what a company can say while it prepares to go public – which is to say, almost nothing. Executives maintain a "quiet period" for months. If the company has to disclose anything, it has to do so to all investors, at once. The fact that sophisticated investors knew the company was warning them about its prospects could have been enough to account for the determined selling of the stock from almost its first minute. Wall Street investors are far less patient with changing the goalposts than are the 900 million users of Facebook who accede to every whim of the company's changing user agreements.The irony of that is just too rich: after all the speculation about how the IPO went wrong, the real reason may have been very simple: Facebook didn't know how to work its own privacy settings for investors. It couldn't figure out, essentially, who should know what.Still, the entire fiasco is a good lesson for Facebook, which is now an underdog rather than top of the roost. It forces the company to understand that it still has to work hard to earn its $90bn valuation. And while the IPO may have made Zuckerberg and his fellow executives a fortune, it doesn't actually change the company's fortunes.Wall Street is a fickle master. Facebook just learned that lesson earlier than most.• Follow Heidi Moore on Twitter@moorehnand her reporting for Marketplace atAmerican Public Media
Facebook's initial public offering was meant to fuel a technology-led resuscitation for sickly western stock markets. But three days after being transplanted from the hothouse into the exposed terrain of the Nasdaq exchange, the company's carefully nurtured sky-high valuation has withered alarmingly. Trading 18% below the $38 offer price, the company has a new moniker: Fadebook.Slowly, a picture is emerging of what went wrong. And US regulators are being urged to intervene: the top securities regulator in Massachusetts has issued a subpoena to Facebook's lead adviser, Morgan Stanley, to find out more about its discussions with lead investors.Separately, shareholders have filed a lawsuit at the Manhattan district court on Wednesday accusing Facebook's chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, and his advisers, including Morgan Stanley, of concealing from them a "severe and pronounced reduction" in revenue growth forecasts. On Tuesday, a similar suit was brought by a different investor in a California state court.The question they will want answering is whether certain investors may have had access to information that would have dented confidence in the shares, while others were left in the dark.The problems began on 9 May, when Facebook amended its initial public offering (IPO) prospectus with a short and, for some, difficult to interpret reference to the fact that while its usage on mobile phones was growing exponentially, the company was finding it harder to sell advertising on its mobile website than on "desktop" pages. In other words, revenues were not keeping pace with the growth in users.Analysts promptly began revising their forecasts. Those analysts included Scott Devitt, whose covers consumer internet firms for Morgan Stanley. The bank, as lead underwriter for the IPO, was employed as Facebook's cheerleader-in-chief.According to Reuters – Morgan Stanley has not yet made the date or the content of the forecasts available to the general public – Devitt decided that revenues in the second quarter of this year, which runs until the end of June, would be $1.111bn (£705m), down from an earlier estimate of $1.175bn. He shaved full-year forecasts too, from $5bn to $4.85bn.Facebook's second and third place underwriters, JP Morgan and Goldman Sachs, are reported to have promptly downgraded their estimates too.Participating banks cannot publicly issue research or make recommendations until 40 days after an IPO is priced, but Devitt and analysts at other banks are allowed to communicate their estimates orally to customers. The concern is that this information may then have filtered through to a privileged few rather than the wider public.In a statement, Morgan Stanley said a "significant number" of analysts in the IPO syndicate reduced their estimates after Facebook's disclosure on 9 May, adding: "Morgan Stanley followed the same procedures for the Facebook offering that it follows for all IPOs. These procedures are in compliance with all applicable regulations."The actions of Facebook's underwriters days later gave no hint of the information they were receiving from their own number-crunchers. On Tuesday, 15&nbsp;May, the range at which they estimated the float would be priced was raised from between $28 and $35 to between $34 and $38.A day later, the insiders and early investors who had invested in Facebook during private funding rounds increased the number of shares they planned to sell during the IPO by a massive 25%.Goldman Sachs decided to sell nearly half its holding, while Manhattan hedge fund Tiger Global increased its sell-off from 3m to 23m shares. Those most likely to have seen the analysts' forecasts may have decided that the shares were unlikely to enjoy the customary day-one surge, seen when Google and the professional networking site LinkedIn went public. Basically, for those in the know, at $38 a share Facebook was a "sell".Bottom of the treeAs is so often the case, smaller retail investors appear to have paid the price. With Facebook, only 10% to 15% of the shares were thought likely to go to small shareholders. There are now estimates that the bulk of the 84m extra shares released last Wednesday went to investors at the bottom of the tree.Before a company goes public, the underwriters, who have been allocated shares to sell on, begin to take pre-orders. In a traditional Wall Street IPO, the bulk of shares will go to those who are prepared to spend the most – pension funds, insurance groups and a few rich individuals.This is because would-be investors offer to buy a high number of shares, in the hopes of being allotted a fraction of their original bid. Those who tried to buy tickets for the Olympics will be familiar with the concept. But with Facebook, smaller bidders suddenly found they were being allotted most or all of the shares they had ordered.Chad Brand, founder of the investment adviser Peridot Capital, had put in orders at E*Trade, one of the brokerage firms allotted a sizable slice of shares. Brand wrote on his blog on the day of the float: "I did not really think they would allocate us any shares ... What happened? We got every share we asked for".Some of the retail clients who called him that day were getting up to 20,000 shares.Competition for the stock from larger investors, it seems, had melted away. The story ended well for Brand. He took advantage of a small increase during Facebook's first day's trading to sell at just over $40.David Joy, an analyst at wealth adviser Ameriprise Financial, wrote in a note to clients: "These developments reinforce the notion that the underwriters did a wonderful job of pricing the offering in order to maximise the profitability to the company's insiders and its private investors but [they] left very little on the table for public investors in the secondary market."A total of 33 banks and brokers were hired to advise Facebook, including Barclays, Credit Suisse and Deutsche Bank from Europe. Most institutions likely to employ analysts to cover Facebook were brought into the golden circle charged with promoting it. With so few independent voices to counter the hype, Facebook was oversold. Now with regulators taking an interest, the company and its advisers may now be asked to join smaller investors in paying the price.
The race to connect every British home to the internet has gone into reverse in Cumbria, where two communities will lose their broadband connection at the end of June.The Duddon Valley, a beauty spot so admired by Wordsworth he dedicated 34 sonnets to its streams and flowers, and Branthwaite on the western edge of the Lake District, are to have the plug pulled on their broadband by the telecoms group that supplies it.Cable &amp; Wireless Worldwidehas written to residents to say the public funds raised to pay for the service have expired, and because the connection is "uneconomical", it is to be withdrawn."If we don't have broadband it's going to promptly make some local businesses uneconomical," said Paul Batten, landlord at the Newfield Inn public house, who along with his father, John, helped install and maintain the broadband equipment."Who is going to move here with children or to try and run a business from home without broadband?"The only alternative now is satellite internet. Ramblers in search of Wordsworth's golden daffodils may soon find themselves confronted with a host of big white dishes, in an area dotted with National Trust farms. Many residents are wary of satellite technology, which is more expensive and can be prone to interference from the weather.Farmers, guides, bed and breakfast owners, home workers and the local outdoor activity centre saw their businesses transformed four years ago when Cable &amp; Wireless's Demon internet arrived in the Duddon valley.Blue badge walking guideTom McCaffertywrote at the time: "This has been my busiest year by far and I feel broadband has been a main contributor to this fact. I cannot believe how I operated without it." Now he and other residents face being cut off for up to five years.The government has said every home in Britain will eventually have access to a basic speed of two megabits per second, which is faster than Duddon's current service, but the deadline for delivering on this promise is not until 2017.Using European money, the North West Development Agency, which wasabolishedalong with all other regional development agencies in March, spent £15m to bring broadband to Cumbria. The investment was made in the wake of the foot and mouth epidemic 2001, which decimated local agriculture and tourism.About £500,000 was spent on connections for Duddon, Branthwaite and three other valleys that were all too remote for BT broadband. The hardest-to-reach homes were connected to the internet not via the copper wires but using radio masts, with small receivers on the outside of properties to pick up the signal.In Duddon, a television mast installed by the Battens 20 years ago by local people was given an internet link to the local telephone exchange."All this money has been spent installing a system that is now going to be disconnected," said Lorretta Cookson, who runs an accountancy practice with her husband in Barrow-in-Furness. She lives an hour's drive away from the office and works from home three days a week. "It's a horrendous waste of money. The amount of time everybody has put into it – all the forms, all the meetings."The Cooksons are raising their four children at Grass Gars farm in Duddon. "A lot of their school work is on the internet. They can't do all their work at lunchtime, so it really puts pressure on them if we haven't got broadband at home."Lack of broadband will be a major setback for Hinning House outdoor education centre, which hosts school trips and operates a bank of 14 computers for children to blog about their encounters with wildlife, complete coursework and video-call classmates."It's just a shame that the system that we've got, which is good and reliable and has not been in that long, is going to be binned," said Bill Taylor, who helps run the centre. "They are going to throw away a good investment rather than looking at ways of extending it."Residents are upset that the five-year contract with Cable &amp; Wireless has only been in use for four years. It was signed in 2007, but broadband equipment was not installed in Duddon until 2008. "What I find so hard to understand is how anybody could allow this sort of public money to be spent with no serious length of commitment to supply," said Batten.James Barber, the head of supplier performance at Cable &amp; Wireless, said maintaining the equipment was costing more than the income from subscribers. There are 42 customers across both valleys, paying under £20 a month, and the company recently spent over £20,000 on a new electricity cable for the Duddon mast.Cable &amp; Wireless tried unsuccessfully to find more public funds. It has struck a deal with a satellite broadband provider, and residents will be offered free installation. "We've done our best to find a reasonable and effective solution for the people of the Duddon Valley area," said Barber.
If there's one thing you can expect from a game with Tom Clancy in the title it's gadgets, and this latest in the popular squad-based series is fully loaded. Of course there's also the usual cast of monosyllabic fighting machines, tenuous plot and unrealistic satellite tech that can pick out individual beards from deep space.GR:FS adopts a close up third-person perspective, but plays very much like an FPS, packed with in-your-face action right from the offset – something that might surprise fans of the series.With four acts – set in Africa, Pakistan, Russia and Norway – GR:FS fits so much into its generic 14-mission campaign it can feel a bit rushed. There are obvious debts to Crysis 2 and Deus Ex, particularly with futuristic gear such as the camoflage suit offering ghostly protection provided you don't move too fast or fire a weapon.But some ideas are both original and superbly realised. Take the Sync Shot, where you can paint up to four targets for team mates to establish line of sight for a coordinated kill. It's a great idea that's bound to be copied by others, as will some of the gadgets.From the brilliant Warhound mobile artillery platform that launches mortars or sidewinder missiles according to remote commands, to the portable UAV's that hover above the battlefield picking out targets, GR:FS has the kind of gadgets James Bond would kill for. And although we're used to seeing intelligent HUDs these days, GR:FS has one of the best – including a super sharp Magnetic View mode, which picks out armed enemies and other metal objects such as landmines.GR:FS also keeps the gun club happy with a massive selection of more than 50 weapons – each of which can be customised – in seven categories with more than 600 separate components. From sniper scopes to armour-piercing rounds, custom stocks and retractable undercarriages, there are so many choices it's tempting to keep replaying levels until you find your ultimate combo.It's fun to play too, with a learning curve that tempts you with new gadgets every few levels and some decent squad AI to back you up. And although making progress is heavily geared towards finding and taking cover, it makes this easier with a cover-dash command that lets you sprint between them by holding down the X key.However, there are some problems. For starters, the engine is far better at depicting gizmos than environments, with largely flat textures, cramped locations and occasional graphical glitches throughout – even in cutscenes. It's also ironic that most of the eye-catching moments – the sandstorms and blizzards or the way the screen shakes when under suppressing fire – are also ones that reduce your visibility to near zero.GR:FS is also very linear, with each level providing a single objective and only additional challenges for, say for killing 15 enemies in Magnetic mode. Admittedly, giving total player freedom would undermine the squad-based ethos, but without being able to issue movement commands, straying from a narrow focus risks losing sensor lock and a return to the last checkpoint.Speaking of which, although most of the cut-scenes are forgettable, they're also un-skipable, meaning you may see them repeatedly after restarts.Luckily, when the single player game is done, there's plenty more to get on with. GR:FS multiplayer is very much a work in progress, and there are some stability, balancing and lobby issues with U-Play still to be sorted, but it's clear the developers have been busy since their recent 600,000-player beta test. The original three multiplayer modes – Conflict, Saboteur and Guerilla – have been boosted with 3 more: Decoy, Siege and a split-screen Co-Op Campaign.Conflict has two teams competing to see who can fulfill the most objectives in 15 minutes. Saboteur is a race to carry a bomb to the rival team's detonation area. Decoy and Siege are best-of-three modes; the first a slightly confusing one involving one real objective and two decoy traps, the second with no respawns and both teams up against the clock to claim or defend a base. Finally, Guerilla is a Horde variant where your team has to withstand 50 waves of increasingly hostile enemies.With character classes that owe a clear debt to Battlefield 3, you get a choice of three to start with and two more unlocked on reaching level 50. Scouts are basically snipers, fleet footed and supported by camo suits. Engineers can hack enemy scanners for intel, but are also useful in close combat. Finally, there's Riflemen, who can lay down suppressing fire and soak up more damage.Whichever character or mode you choose, GR:FS is unashamedly team focused, with frantic battles best won by supporting your colleagues and additional bonuses, upgrades and kill-streaks awarded for objectives solved by teamwork. This won't please lone snipers or last-man-standing fans, but when it works with the right compadres, GR:FS is a refreshing alternative to the usual FPS machismo.However, with only two maps for each multiplayer mode and four for Guerilla, Ubisoft is not exactly splashing out on content. This may be due to a premium DLC pack coming in July with more maps, weapons and upgrades, but including a few more maps would have been a nice reward for a patient Ghost Recon community that now risks being divided between DLC  haves and have-nots.GR:FS is so nearly a landmark game. It's busting with great gadgets, challenging and unusual to play and committed to a true co-op spirit that most rivals have long since abandoned. If only it looked a little better, had a few more maps and U-Play made it easier to find a quick online match-up with your mates. Even so, it's a worthy alternative to any FPS and puts the Ghost Recon franchise right back at the cutting edge.• Game reviewed on PS3
