Apple is losing two of its most high profile executives in the firm's biggest management shakeup since co-founder Steve Jobs stepped down as chief executive.Scott Forstall, senior vice-president of iPhone software and one of the original architects of Apple's OS X software, will leave next year. John Browett, poached just five months ago from Dixons to become head of retail, is also set to leave. Apple said that four key executives — including top designer Jony Ive — would "add responsibilities to their roles."The rare shakeup comes shortly after the introduction of iPhone's latest software was marred by a mapping disaster. Tim Cook, the chief executive, was forced to apologise for Apple Maps, meant as a rival to Google Maps, after it proved inaccurate and incomplete. Last week the company delivered disappointing financial results as iPad sales fell short of Wall Street's targets.Eddy Cue, senior vice-president of internet software and services, will take charge of Maps and Apple's Siri voice recognition responsibilities. The retail team will report directly to Cook until a replacement for Browett can be found.The company said Ive will provide "leadership and direction for Human Interface across the company" in addition to his role as the leader of industrial design."We are in one of the most prolific periods of innovation and new products in Apple's history," said Cook. "The amazing products that we've introduced in September and October, iPhone 5, iOS 6, iPad mini, iPad, iMac, MacBook Pro, iPod touch, iPod nano and many of our applications, could only have been created at Apple and are the direct result of our relentless focus on tightly integrating world-class hardware, software and services."Browett was appointed just five months ago and was set to receive a $56m pay package over five years. It's not yet clear how much of that will be triggered by his early departure. There have been reports that he clashed with other Apple executives.Forstall has been a major influence at Apple for over a decade. He joined the firm in 1997 and was responsible for several releases of the Mac OS X operating system, most notably Mac OS X Leopard. The company said the management shift would "encourage even more collaboration".Trading in Apple's shares is suspended at present with the closing of News York's stock exchange as the city braces itself for the arrival of hurricane Sandy.
Steve Ballmer said on Monday that Microsoft, its developers, software and hardware partners were "all in" on Windows Phone 8 - a phrase that will resonate with poker players making a final stand by putting all their chips on a last hand.Ballmer, the company's chief executive, spoke at an event in San Francisco as the software giant launched the third version of its newest mobile operating system in three years, aiming finally to get traction against the entrenched positions of Apple's iOS and Google's Android.Joe Belfiore, manager of the Windows Phone 8 program at Microsoft, showed off key elements of the new version of the software, including "Rooms" (which creates small groups of contacts with whom updates are shared), "Kids Corner" (which provides a limited set of apps that children can use without interacting with broader phone functions), "Datasense" (which compresses over-the-air data and monitors monthly data use) and new integration with the just-released Windows 8 desktop and tablet operating system.But Belfiore admitted that despite Microsoft's best efforts by January it would still only have 46 of the top 50 apps from other app stores available for the platform. Even at launch, apps such as Skype - owned by Microsoft - and Pandora, the hugely popular music streaming service in the US, will not be ready at the launch this weekend.HTC, Nokia and Samsung will have a variety of phones on sale from Friday, on all the UK operators and through Phones4U and Carphone Warehouse.Windows Phone's distinctive tiled user interface - which has marked it apart from the more familiar icon-based interfaces of Android and iOS - has been slightly tweaked to include smaller tiles, though still larger than its rivals'."I think that with focus on Windows 8, what was different [in the tiled interface] will become familiar vs different being strange," commented Carolina Milanesi, smartphones analyst at the research group Gartner.Presently, Windows Phone is struggling to make any impact on the broader smartphone market. In the third quarter of 2012 Windows Phone devices - almost all from struggling Nokia - made up about 3.5% of phones shipped, against 17% for Apple's iOS and 68% for Google's Android. The remainder was taken by BlackBerry-maker RIM and other products.At the same time Gartner pulished new research which suggests that Windows Phone will grow its share rapidly over the next four years, going from roughly 17.4m users at the end of 2012 - against 142.8m iOS users and 429.8m Android users - to 207.1m users by the end of 2016.By that time, Gartner reckons, Android will have 1.08bn users, and iOS 266.3m. That will put Windows Phone barely into third place behind Apple, while RIM is forecast to have slipped away from a high of 51.6m at the end of 2011 to just 23.3m by the end of 2016.Microsoft has lured developers to the platform with the promise of payments - and is trying to do the same with customers, offering a year's free subscription to the paid-for Pandora service on the phones. However as Pandora is limited to the US, that will be less attractive to UK users.In the US, Verizon will have exclusivity on Nokia's Lumia 822 phone.Microsoft has also issued afull press release.
Britain will catch up with over 40 other countries on Tuesday when its first 4G mobile network is switched on, promising internet connections for smartphones and tablets at several times the average speed of current 3G services.Delays caused by years of legal wrangling and a change of government have seen the UK's once cutting-edge mobile networks fall behind other nations including the US, Germany and even Angola in introducing fourth-generation wireless services.But EE, the company behind T-Mobile and Orange, is pressing the button on 4G in 11 British cities a full six months ahead of the country's other networks.Birmingham, Bristol, Cardiff, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Leeds, Liverpool, London, Manchester, Sheffield and Southampton are in the first round, and coverage will expand by 2,000 square miles every month, with five more cities following by Christmas.Those who sign up for a contract are being promised speeds between 8 and 12 megabits per second (Mbps), as fast as the average home broadband connection – meaning activities like video calling, live online gaming and watching video in high definition will no longer be a slow and frustrating experience over mobile connections.Rival networks Vodafone, O2 and Three will be able to launch their own 4G services in May after a government spectrum auction, and in the meantime are working to make up lost ground by racing the install the latest versions of 3G, which they argue are just as fast.The experts used to agree that mobile networks were like high street banks, offering a similar service under different brand names. But investments in the latest radio equipment, more masts and faster fibre cables to link up those masts could now give some networks the edge.To mark the arrival of 4G and cut through the marketing noise, we are asking Guardian readers to help create a mobile internet speed map of the UK, with results for each network.To find out how fast your network is, complete aquick speed test, designed by Chris Cross, which can be completed on your mobile phone. This will plot the results by network onto a map of the UK.You can run tests in as many locations and as many times as you like. Just switch off any Wi-Fi connection to make sure you are measuring the mobile network and not your broadband speed, agree to let us register your location and put a tick next to the name of your service provider.To give an idea of the speeds to expect, the top laboratory-tested download rate on EE's network is around 50 Mbps – equal to superfast home broadband. In real life conditions, the company is forecasting speeds of between 8 and 12Mbps.In fact, this is on a par with the latest version of 3G, which uses two antennas in a phone to double the usual speed. If you are standing under the right 3G mast with the right phone, at time when there are not too many other users vying for bandwidth, you should be able to get a speed comparable to EE's."Technology-wise, 4G is an evolution," says James Barford, telecoms expert at Enders Analysis. "The latest version of 3G is quite close in performance to the current 4G. That said, EE's network will be virtually empty for at least six months, so the speeds experienced are likely to be impressive."Tests by the network operators themselves show slow but steady progress, with speeds having doubled from a nationwide average of around 1.5Mbps in the middle of 2010 to 3Mbps now. Given that at least 2Mbps is required on home broadband to watch video from services like the BBC's iPlayer, it looks like we are receiving the bare minimum needed for the modern internet. An estimated 25% of the UK population still cannot get a 3G signal.With your help, we can uncover who is delivering the best service in which areas today.
So the big reveal has happened, and now it's down to the Christmas race, in which everyone is going to be talking about the different mini-tablets on offer - principally, the Amazon Kindle Fire family, Google's Nexus 7, and Apple's iPad mini.Here's an easy prediction: the iPad mini will sell far more than either of the other two. In fact it might sell more than both put together. The reason why is simple: it's going to be sold in many more countries than either of the other two. Apple plans tosell the iPad ministarting from 2 NovemberThrough the Apple Online Store (www.apple.com), Apple's retail stores, and select Apple Authorized Resellers in the US, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Korea, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Puerto Rico, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the UK.Count 'em – that's 34 countries. By contrast, the Amazon Kindle Fire range will be on sale in the US, UK, Germany, Italy, France and Spain – that's six countries (though of course the US has at least 250 million potential buyers, and the five European countries have millions of buyers too).Meanwhile the Google Nexus 7 – expected soon to get a 32GB storage bump, and perhaps even a 3G version – has been on sale since July in the US, UK, Australia and Canada, and since August also in France, Germany, Italy and Spain.Possibly more countries will be announced in this Monday's event. That's eight countries – and while those too are very big, covering hundreds of millions of potential buyers, it's not a patch on 34 countries. So let's take it as read that the iPad mini is going to sell millions and millions this quarter.The more interesting question is what happens in the countries where all three are going head to head. And although Apple is trying to do the same thing that it did with the iPod market – conquer the high end, and then move down the price and size space to sweep up what's left – there's a very different dynamic going on this time. Look at the specs, and a few things jump out:Mini-tablets compared2012 KindleFireKindleFire HDKindleFire HD 8.9Google Nexus 7 8GBiPad miniUS price$159$199 (16GB)$249 (32GB)$299-$499$199 (8GB)$249 (16GB)$329 (16GB)toUK price£129 (16GB)£199 (32GB)£159 (16GB)£199 (32GB)-£159 (8GB)£199 (16GB)£269 (16GB)£349 (32GB)£429 (64GB)£369 (4G, 16GB)£449 (4G, 32GB)£529 (4G, 64GB)Availablenownownownow (16GB)? (32GB)2 Nov (Wi-Fi)mid-Nov (3G/4G)storage8GB16GB, 32GB16, 32, 64GB16GB, 32GB16,32, 64GBscreen size7in7in8.9in7in7.85inscreen res1024x6001280x8001920x12001280x8001024x768screen ratio16:916:1016:1016:104:3Screen ppi169216254216162Actualscreenarea133.5 sq cm133.5 sq cm230.4 sq cm142.2 sq cm192 sq cmCPU speed,cores1.2GHz dual-core1.2GHz dual-core1.2GHz dual-core1.3GHz quad-coreDual-core A5 chip3G?optionoptionNoptionWi-Fi802.11n dual antenna802.11n dual antenna802.11n dual antenna802.11n802.11nOther wirelessLTE in USLTE in US+ othersAirPlayFront camera"HD", 720p video“HD, 720p video"HD" 720p video1.2MPHD, 1080p videoRear cameraNNNN5MP1080p videoOS versionAndroid 4.0*Android 4.0*Android 4.0*Android 4.1iOS6weight395g395g567g340g308g312g (3G/4G)ConnectorsMicro-USBMicro-USBmicro-HDMIMicro-USBmicro-HDMIMicro-USBApple”Lightning”• The iPad mini has a larger screen than all except the Kindle Fire HD (which arguably is going after the "standard iPad" market)• The iPad mini weighs less than any of the others, despite that larger screen• The iPad mini costsa lotmore than the others.How come on the last one? Because Amazon and Google are both selling their products at or below cost – in Amazon's case because it wants to make profits back through selling media for them, and in Google's case because it wants to kickstart the Android tablet market at what previously looked like a niche in the market (one which only Amazon had attacked previously with 2011's release of the Kindle Fire in the US).This means that it's not quite like January 2004, when Apple launched the iPod mini – a physically smaller device that was its first move into the burgeoning smaller-capacity market, which it had previously left alone while it put bigger capacities into the "full-size" iPod.At that point, even though it was (again) more expensive than some rivals – a 4GB iPod mini cost $249 (approx £155) – it was price-competitive with others, such as theRio Nitrus, launched in the same month.Now that has changed, because Amazon and Google are willing to eat the losses on the hardware if they can make it up on the software – or even, in Google's case, just grab some market share while getting people to use the web.Estimates about sales of the first generation of Kindle Fire tablets range from between 5m and 7m. Amazon will likely want to sell more than that this time around, but as Horace Dediu of Asymcopoints out, "Amazon will sell as many Kindles as they make, but the number they will make will not be the most they could make."Amazon doesn'twantto win the market share game; it wants to win the "most enthusiastic buyers of content" game. It's in this business for entirely different reasons from Apple, and indeed Google.The worst outcome for Amazon is to sell out its stock of tablets to people who don't then buy ebooks, Amazon MP3s, videos and other Amazon-sold media to view on it, because they'll effectively have burnt its money. That's part of why Amazon has its own app store; it's also probably why it has prioritised giving those tablets multiple user logins (eg parents and children) – because then with one tablet you can access multiple piece of content. It only has to bear the cost once.Not persuaded? Listen to Jeff Bezos, Amazon's chief executive, announcing the company'slatest quarterly figures: "Our approach is to work hard to charge less. Sell devices near breakeven and you can pack a lot of sophisticated hardware into a very low price point … And our approach is working – the $199 Kindle Fire HD is the No1 bestselling product across Amazon worldwide."Incredibly, this is true even as measured by unit sales. The next two bestselling products worldwide are our Kindle Paperwhite and our $69 Kindle. We're selling more of each of these devices than the No4 bestselling product, book three of the Fifty Shades of Grey series."He doesn't say whether that's for sales of Fifty Shades book three in the US, or worldwide, nor whether that's for the Kindle version, paperback version or both (maddening imprecision is one of Bezos's hallmarks in his public statements), and as only EL James's publisher knows quite how many of those books are selling on Amazon (though it's probably in the tens of thousands per week) we're still left wondering a bit. But Bezos's aim is clear: sell at a loss, make it up on content sales.Is it a good strategy? Consider that Amazon announced a net loss of $274m in that quarter and that it's forecasting in next quarter to do anywhere between a net loss of $490m to a net profit of $310m. That's the biggest variance I've ever seen in such a forecast; even if you allow for the $290m of stock-based compensation that it may have to pay, Amazon is saying it's going to make anything between a $200m loss and a $310m profit. Half a billion one way or the other.So the Kindle Fire is great news for customers, who get a cheap device, though Amazon's shareholders might wonder a little. (Another thing to wonder about: if you buy content via a Kindle Fire, do you get subjected to Amazon'suser-variable pricing? Is it higher than a first-time visitor to Amazon?)Meanwhile, Google wants people who will browse and watch YouTube videos a lot– because they are the ones who will see more web pages, and so be more likely to be exposed to Google adverts of all sorts.Google doesn't benefit greatly if people buy games apps from Google Play, because a minute spent there is a minute not spent browsing; this may be part of the reason why I've been hearing from Android developers that Google isn't moving as quickly as it might to prevent piracy of apps (whereas Apple does, because every app sold or downloaded ties that user a little more tightly to its OS).This essential difference between how Google and Amazon are approaching this market may be one reason behind the surprising finding by Chitika Insights, which said in itsOctober tablet reportthat in the US the Kindle Fire had just 0.5% of the US and Canadian web browsing market.The market is so polarised in web browsing though that all the non-iPad tablets combined had only 8% of share; the Nexus 7 came fifth, with 0.78%, but it's a long way even from Samsung's 1.2%.US & Canada tablet web browsing as measured by Chitika Insights ad network, 9-15 Oct 2012.(Mobile users:graphic here.)That's why the calculations suggesting that Google may have sold 1m or 2m Nexus 7s in the US sounds about right; if you multiply that around the world, and add in a bit of knowledge about what's happened in the past, then like Sameer Singh you get an estimate of about 2.9m units shipped in the third quarter, and thatfor the year Google will ship 6m-8m units.Gene Munster at Piper Jaffrayputs the third-quarter figure rather lower– giving a top number of 1m – and until Google comes out and says it, we're not going to know for sure. (Unless someonestarts getting clever with serial numbers.)So Google's strategy isn't like Amazon's; it doesn't really want to sell content to make up the difference. It wants to monetise your viewing of the web. Depending how much you think it loses per hardware purchase, that could easily happen in just a couple of months – if,as has been estimated, your data is worth $700 per year to Google. (For most people it's likely to be considerably lower, or Google would be pricing the Nexus 7 much, much lower.)And Apple's strategy? Its aim is to make profits on its hardware. That's how it rolls – it produces a device and sells it at a profit. A bit revolutionary, but there you go.But how are people going to buy when they get the chance to see these devices? I haven't been able to put them all side by side, but quite possibly many buyers won't either.Just going by reputation, you could guess that Apple will do well when people get their hands on the iPad mini; from my brief moments using it in San Jose afterApple's announcement, it's extremely light, and yet the screen is big. Plus all the existing iPad apps – already a provably strong ecosystem – work straight away.By contrast, the Nexus 7 is heavier, and the screen is smaller. Amazon, meanwhile, has its website – one of the best shop windows online – which it's already using to push the Kindle Fire for all it's worth.If I had to guess who'll do well, I'd say that Amazon and Apple are going to shift plenty of tablets. Google's likely to bring up the rear. And then the real question is what happened to everyone else who's making 7in tablets. Yes, I could be looking at RIM and its PlayBook. But having lost around a billion dollars on that ill-fated expedition in order to ship 1.74m devices in six quarters, I don't think we need to wonder how long the PlayBook has in this world.
There is plenty of anecdotal evidence for tablets being used predominantly for entertainment, but mobile analytics firm Flurry has tried toput some hard numbers on the trend, by comparing smartphone and tablet apps usage by category.Its research is based on more than 6bn app sessions on around 500m smartphones and tablets in September 2012, with the data coming from apps using the company's analytics tools.The most interesting chart is the one above, which compares time spent per app category between smartphones and tablets. Games is the most popular category on both, but there are notable differences in the percentage of time that games suck up: 39% of smartphone usage but 67% of tablet usage."At a high level, consumers spend more time using tablets for media and entertainment, including Games (67%), Entertainment (9%) and News (2%) categories which account for nearly four-fifths of consumption on tablets," blogs Flurry's Peter Farago, who notes that communication and task-oriented activities have a higher profile on smartphones."Further reinforcing that tablets are 'media machines' is the fact that consumers spend 71% more of their time using games on tablets they spend doing so on smartphones."There are two caveats to note here, though. First, Flurry's analytics aren't used by the apps for Twitter or Facebook, meaning their official apps aren't counted (although a number of third-party clients are).Social networking accounts for a larger proportion of smartphone and tablet usage than is shown here – Facebook had 604m monthly active mobile users in the third quarter of 2012, with 126m of them accessing the social networksolely through their phones.The second caveat is that these figures cover use of native apps, but not what people are doing in their smartphone or tablet web browsers. Tablet users are likely to be handling some of their non-entertainment/media tasks through the browser, which wouldn't show up here.Still, there is plenty to chew on elsewhere in the research, such as the graph showing smartphone and tablet usage by hour: both spike between 7pm and 10pm, although the effect is more noticeable for tablets.Smartphone and tablet usage by hour. Source: FlurryThe research also indicates that while smartphone apps are used more often than tablet apps – 12.9 times a week versus 9.5 times – tablet apps are used for longer per session: 8.2 minutes on average, versus 4.1 minutes for smartphone apps.But Farago comes back to the implications of the tablet data for the living room, and some of the companies who may get disrupted by it:"Tablet users are older, more female, and we can surmise, more affluent.  Additionally, they use more during the evenings and for longer sessions.  Finally they consume more media and entertainment experiences, with a significant proportion spent on games," he writes."In particular, this would indicate that as Apple and Google enter the living room with connected TV initiatives, game consoles made by Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo would experience the greatest competition.  The distribution of content into the living room may also significantly change for network and cable television content providers."
In 2012, a lot of people are using smartphones, tablets and/or laptops while watching TV. But how many, what are they doing, and what might it mean for the TV industry?It's a question being chewed over at pretty much every industry conference, and there is no shortage of research companies conducting surveys to try to help them understand viewer habits, and respond accordingly.I thought it might be a good time to round up some of the latest studies, all from 2012, and draw a few conclusions. Starting with the latter:Somewhere between 75% and 85% of TV viewers use other devices while watching, although a lot of these people are doing unrelated tasks – it's startling how many surveys come up with around 60% for the percentage of people who are emailing, which is a telling (and somewhat dispiriting) comment on modern working habits.Of these multi-screeners, how many are actually using their second device to look for something relating to the show they're watching? Somewhere between 37% and 52%, while between 27% and 44% are browsing for products spotted in a show or ad, depending which survey you believe.It's looking like more than a fifth of TV viewers are chatting on Facebook or Twitter about the shows they're watching, although again, lots of people are on these sites for unrelated reasons (between 42% and 48% overall, by the looks of it, which includes related and unrelated use).Here are the studies, in reverse-chronological order by date of publication. If I've missed any significant research, do post links and details in the comments:eDigitalResearch / IMRG (October 2012)This was a survey of 2,000 people in the UK conducted in early July 2012. It found that 80% of smartphone owners, 81% of tablet owners and 73% of laptop owners use their devices in front of the TV. 41% of people have used one of these devices to browse for a product after seeing it in a show or advert.IMRG is "the UK's industry association for e-retail", so it was keen to stress the implications for retailers, particularly in terms of ensuring their smartphone and tablet-friendly websites and apps tie into the adverts they're running on TV.Red Bee Media / Decipher (October 2012)This survey of more than 2,000 British smartphone, tablet and laptop owners claimed that 86% have used one of these devices while watching TV, although only one fifth have used a "synchronous companion app" (e.g. a Zeebox-style app) to do it.Of those app users, 55% were keen on the ability to respond to shows through polls and voting in these apps, while 52% liked the ability to participate or influence them by playing along.The study also found that 52% of respondents had used a second screen to find out more about a TV show, and that one third said they were more likely to watch a show live rather than on catch-up if there was lots of social buzz around it.44% of "dual screeners" use the second screen to find out more about brands or ads, 56% are open to receiving targeted ads through synchronous apps, and 40% would be willing to receive offers and promotions on their devices based on products featured on the TV. Meanwhile, a quarter of respondents said they'd pay for a second-screen app, although only £1.27 per app on average.Verizon / Harris Interactive (October 2012)Verizon commissioned Harris for a poll of 2,319 Americans who were planning to watch the US presidential debates. It found that 65% said they were going to do it with a smartphone, tablet or computer in their hands/laps.41% said they were at least "somewhat likely" to use the second screen to fact-check statements by Barack Obama and Mitt Romney, while 39% were somewhat likely to follow the reactions of political reporters, and 26% to follow those of comedians ("although it is not clear if this is to track their political punditry or for comic relief").This wasn't a one-way flow of social updates, though. 23% of people planning to watch the debates said they'd post their own reactions on Facebook, and 14% on Twitter.BSkyB / YouGov (September 2012)BSkyB commissioned YouGov for some research on how technology and social media are changing TV-viewing habits, based on 4,465 responses.The topline figure: 75% of Brits watch TV with a second device to hand. What are they doing? 65% are surfing the web, 60% are emailing and 48% are using social networks.The study also drilled into the habits of 18-24 year-olds, finding that 24% use Facebook to find something to watch, while 9% use Twitter. 37% share something about a show on social media, while 31% talk online to people they don't know about their favourite shows.Overall, 24% of people surveyed said they use social media for TV recommendations, while 12% of people say "they've turned on their TV just because of something they've seen on social media".Google's multi-screen study included a warningGoogle / Ipsos / Sterling (August 2012)This is currently one of the most widely-quoted studies of multi-screen habits, thanks in part to its warning to the TV industry that "Television no longer commands our full attention": 77% of the times people watch TV, it's with another device.The study, which involved 1,611 US participants, suggested that 81% of people use smartphones while watching TV, while 66% use laptops or PCs while watching TV. Top activities included emailing (60%), internet browsing (44%), social networking (42%) and playing games (25%).Google suggested that 22% of "simultaneous usage" of more than one device is complementary – one use is related to the other. It also found that 22% of respondents have searched for something on their smartphone because they saw it on TV – a figure that breaks down to 17% because of an ad, and 7% because of a show (obviously, there's an overlap).Ericsson (August 2012)Ericsson's study of TV and video habits was based on its ConsumerLab research program, which involves interviewing 100,000 people a year in 40 countries.Its key finding was that 62% of people use social media while watching TV – 18 percentage points more than 2011's finding. 40% of them are discussing what they're currently watching on social networks.The report noted that social TV isn't just for the young folk: 30% of 45-59 year-olds "engage in social TV behaviour at least weekly".Deloitte (August 2012)Deloitte's survey of 4,000 people in the UK dug into second-screen habits, claimed that 24% of all respondents use second screens, although nearly half of 16-24 year-olds use messaging, email, Facebook or Twitter to discuss what they're watching on TV.It suggested there is a "muted appetite" for interacting with shows from the second screen, with only one tenth of respondents browsing the internet for information about the show they're watching.40% said they like being able to send comments in to a live show, but 68% said they wouldn't want websites for products, people or adverts that they've just seen on TV to "automatically appear on their computer, tablet or smartphone".Deloitte's response was that second-screening has much more of an impact on driving "conversations about a programme, as opposed to interaction with it", with the company's Paul Lee suggesting it will be similar to eating in front of the TV: "An everyday experience for some; absolutely unthinkable for others. One thing is certain: it is here for good."The Pew Internet study examined what multi-screeners doPew Research Center (July 2012)Another US study, this, conducted for the Pew Internet &amp; American Life Project with a sample of 2,254 US adults in late March 2012, although published later in the year.It found that 52% of mobile phone owners are "connected viewers", using their phones while watching TV. 38% do it to keep themselves occupied during advertising breaks or other pauses, and 23% send texts to friends watching the same show as them.22% fact-check what they've seen on TV, 20% visit websites mentioned in a show, 11% check what other people are saying online about the show they're watching, and 11% post their own comments from their phone. Meanwhile, 6% said they use their phones to vote for reality show contestants.IAB UK / ESPN (July 2012)The UK's Internet Advertising Bureau teamed up with broadcaster ESPN for a study zeroing in on second-screen usage during the Euro 2012 football tournament, based on ESPN's 3,000-strong Fan Forum panel.The idea: to dig into how people use multiple screens during a big sporting event. It found 54% of fans used another device while watching matches on TV, and that of those, 68% were using the second device for "UEFA Euro 2012-related activity".Of these people, 39% visited social networking sites related to the match, 17% visited related websites, 16% placed bets, and 11% used related apps. 16% of fans read tweets, while 10% tweeted themselves.However, unrelated activity was also happening on the second screen: 61% checked emails and 13% did online banking tasks.Thinkbox (June 2012)The Screen Life study from Thinkbox and COG Research aimed to give the advertising industry more insight into multi-screen viewing, blending analysis of video footage of 23 households' living rooms with an online survey of 2,000 people.It suggested that 86% people with access to TV and the internet have ever "multi-screened", while 34% say they do so regularly. It found that 31% have chatted about TV shows or ads in a second screen, but that this rose to 56% for 16-24 year-olds.The research suggested that multi-screeners are more likely to stay in the living room during ad breaks (81% versus 72% for people who aren't multi-screening), and that they watch for longer too: 64% of their viewing sessions last for more than 15 minutes, versus 47% for non multi-screeners.IAB / Ipsos MediaCT (May 2012)This was a study from the Internet Advertising Bureau which found that 63% of TV viewers had used a connected device the last time they watched live TV, with that rising to 66% for people the last time they watched time-shifted TV.This research also found that most users are emailing, texting and social networking, which aren't usually related to what they're watching. However, it claimed that 45% of smartphone and 30% of tablet "multi-screeners" were doing something relating to the current show.23% of smartphone multi-screeners were texting, emailing or messaging friends about the TV, while 20% were chatting about it on social networks, and 20% actually talking (as in voice calls) about it to friends.37% of smartphone multi-screeners use their devices to talk about ads they've seen, with some intriguing findings that the more devices people use at once, the better they are able to remember ads – as in associate advertisers with specific TV shows.Nielsen compared habits across four countriesNielsen (April 2012)Nielsen's study of multi-screening habits is also regularly quoted at TV and tech industry conferences, not least because it compared the US, UK, Germany and Italy rather than focusing on one market.In the US, it found that 41% of smartphone owners use their phones at least once a day while watching TV, while 45% of tablet owners do the same. In the UK, those numbers were 40% and 41% respectively.Across all countries, the most frequent tablet or smartphone activity was checking email, but Nielsen also dug into US (I think)simultaneous TV and tablet usagefor some more depth.It found that 61% of tablet owners check email while watching TV, 47% visit social networks during a show (and 45% during the ad break), 37% look up information relating to the show they're watching, 34% check sports scores, and 27% look up product information based on a TV ad.
On Friday night it started snowing. Very slowly at first, just a few flakes descending in the bitter Nottingham air. But then the sky began to fill with these little dots of ice and the revellers wandering along Beastmarket Hill pulled their hands into their shirt sleeves as they searched for taxis. Amid the modest flurry, I passed the main tent of the GameCity festival, occupying its usual place in the city's old square. Even at this hour, light was emanating from within, the promise of one more day of fun before the show ended on Saturday evening. But I was overcome with disappointment because I knew I wouldn't be going in again until next year. I buttoned up my coat and trudged off, dejected.GameCityis brilliant. Directed by Iain Simons and organised by a small but committed team (with the help of Nottingham Trent University and the city council), it seeks to provide an inclusive and exciting series of talks and events at venues all over the city. Throughout it all, indie developers, students and academics are able to exhibit their latest titles in the central tent, which is open and welcoming to all, from toddlers to pensioners.At this year's festival, you could see Phil Fish, the creator of Fez, giving a talk in which he imagined it was 2027. He provided a complex timeline leading to the release of Fez Forever, his first game's much delayed sequel – the timeline included a world war, a global electromagnetic blackout and the merger of Apple and Google into Agooglple. The talk was funny, self-depricating and at times biting (apparently the Xbox 360 version of Fez won't be patched successfully until 2024), and it was unlike any talk I'd seen in games before.Elsewhere, Ed Key gave a playthrough of his atmospheric retro-tinged exploration gameProteus, accompanied by a live score – the audience was enraptured. We saw Irish coderTerry Cavanaghchallenging Edge journalist Jason Killingsworth to a blistering game of hardcore puzzler Super Hexagon. We saw the hugely likeable developer Mike Bithell asking a succession of industry legends how he could improve his own game,Thomas Was Alone. Martin Hollis, co-creator of GoldenEye, told him it was fine as it is. Bithell looked as though he wanted time to stop and replay that moment forever.And on it went. We metMinecraft Edu, the small team of educators helping to promote the massively successful building game as a valuable classroom resource. We met the team from Media Molecule, the creators of LittleBigPlanet, who turned up to make paper models of their forthcoming title Tearaway. We got the radio showOne Life Leftdoing their video game karaoke, encouraging audience members to sing new versions of pop hits modified to have gaming themes. Steve Owen of GamesPress managed to transform Ironic by Alannis Morrisette into a stinging indictment of unimaginative games writing (sample lyric: "'It's like Heavy Rain on LCD, buy this game if it's your cup of tea'").By way of contrast to that performance, Friday night saw an event named Reads Like a Seven, in which a bunch of journalists read out a series of their own articles – a sort of poetry slam, but with games. I had my reservations about the format, but it was an amazing night, with wonderful performances from Leigh Alexander, Ste Curran, Kieron Gillen, Simon Parkin and Cara Ellison. Oh, I also read outsomething- it was… difficult.'Inspirational' is one word that kept cropping up during chats with other attendees. There is nothing about GameCity that smacks of the usual nonsense; no booth babes or bombastic trailers belting out on mega-watt sound systems, no superstar developers hyping franchise reboots or next generation graphics engines. Just lots of people who love games, or love discovering them, enjoying a sense of community, the brotherhood of a shared and meaningful passion.In the main tent, the heart of GameCity, the magic of gaming was apparent at every turn. The parents trying out touch-based shooters with their teenagers; the octogenarian couple helping each other to use an Xbox 360 controller; the kids interacting with Proteus by bouncing on a trampoline. I saw Lewie Proctor ofSavygamerplaying the astonishing physical climbing gameGirp, with his dad; I'm glad I stumbled upon this heartwarming scene before the reading event on Friday night or I probably would have burst out crying.What GameCity7 said to me is that games are about so much more than this ridiculous month in which all the Triple AAA heavy-hitters flood onto the shop shelves at once. They spread out wider and further, they embrace companionship and community, laughter and sharing and creativity. They are life – just as much as music, books and movies are. These are the thoughts that kept me warm last Friday night as the snow fell on Nottingham town centre and the GameCity tent receded into the distance, into the past.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 27 October, 2012PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Medal of Honor: Warfighter(16+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (40)12 (1)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (48)PS3 (41)Wii (3)VITA (2)53 (–)Forza Horizon(12+)Xbox 360 (100)14 (2)Skylanders Giants (7+)Wii (46)Xbox 360 (35)25 (3)Dishonored(18+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (36)PC (7)36 (4)Just Dance 4(3+)Wii (92)Xbox 360 (7)PS3 (1)47 (–)Professor Layton and the Miracle Mask(7+)3DS (100)18 (–)Moshi Monsters: Moshlings Theme Park(3+)DS (65)3DS (36)19 (5)Doom 3: BFG Edition(18+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (44)PC (7)210 (7)Resident Evil 6(18+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (50)411 (8)Borderlands 2(18+)Xbox 360 (63)PS3 (31)PC (6)612 (6)Pokemon Black Version 2 (3+)DS (100)313 (13)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (80)PS3 (12)PC (9)4614 (12)007 Legends(16+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (49)215 (11)F1 2012(3+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (46)PC (3)616 (9)Pokemon White Version 2 (3+)DS (100)317 (15)Pro Evolution Soccer 2013(3+)PS3 (61)Xbox 360 (33)PSP (4)PC (2)618 (16)New Super Mario Bros 2(3+)3DS (100)1119 (18)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Wii (26)Xbox 360 (22)DS (17)PS3 (12)1920 (10)XCOM: Enemy Unknown(12+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (27)PC (18)3UKIEGames Charts © compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Hurricane Sandy has forced Google to postpone an event on Monday morning in New York where it planned to show off its partners' newest "Nexus" smartphones – though enough detail has already leaked out ahead of time to describe the phones and tablets it was expected to show off.Following a number ofleaksonline, UK retailer Carphone Warehouse last week wasspotted by Pocket Lint showing a pagewith full details about a phone made by struggling handset maker LG that is expected to be the next "Nexus 4": it has a 4.7in display, 1280x768 screen resolution (giving it a pixel density of 320ppi), have an 8MP rear camera, panoramic photo capture system and NFC. It is also expected to have a 1.5GHz quad-core processor, LTE connectivity in the US, and 8GB of onboard storage.As is standard with Google's "Nexus" models, there is no SD card option for expanding the onboard storage. It is expected to run Android 4.2 – though it's unclear whether that constitutes a full or minor upgrade to Android compared with its 4.1.2 version.One reportat The Next Websays that Android 4.2 will introduce a "sharing" option so that multiple users can swap logins on a single tablet – an option that would be especially attractive to families and businesses.Carphone Warehouse was taking pre-orders on Nexus 4 phone contracts beginning at £31 per month with no upfront cost. The site page where it showed them was unavailable on Monday morning.LG has been making losses in the handset business for about two years, and the unveiling was to be its first time making Google's "reference" Nexus model. Previous Nexus models have been made by HTC and Samsung. While the products have not in the past been big sellers – because they do not get widespread carrier support – for owners they usually provide a faster track to Android updates than other handsets.In an embarrassing twist for Google,one of its staff left the LG "Nexus 4" phone in a barnear its Silicon Valley offices in September - the same problem Apple faced in 2010 when one of its staff, Gray Powell,left an iPhone 4 prototype in a barin nearby Redwood City. That phone was sold on for thousands of dollars, and led to police searches of a journalist's home following an article on Gizmodo.According to Wired, Google was no more peaceful about the loss of its phone: a friend of Jamin Barton, the bartender who found the device, described the Google staffer to Wired as "little but really pushy, like military …. He said he wanted to keep me out of trouble – like I was in any kind of trouble – keep the bar out of trouble. They could file criminal charges, he said."Google's staffer eventually recovered the phone, offering Barton a free model if he would keep quiet about it until after the launch.The search giant was also expected to show off one and possibly two tablets on Monday before being forced to postpone the event in New York. A version of its Nexus 7 tablet – possibly with 3G connectivity, and almost certainly with 32GB of storage rather than the current 16GB limit – and a "Nexus 10" tablet built by Samsung were both anticipated.According to leaked details from Argosreported by The Next Web, the 32GB Wi-Fi version will cost £199.99 and be available some time in November.The Samsung tablet is expected to offer 2560x1600 pixels for 300ppi resolution in a 10in tablet, ahead of the just-announced new Apple iPad's 264ppi. Vic Gundotra, head of Google's mobile side, has posted a number of pictures on his Google+ profile whose EXIF data indicates that they were taken with a "Nexus 10" device.
It's Monday and I have a voice recover filled with interviews from the amazing GameCity festival. How are you?
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhy Sandy has meteorologists scared, in four images &gt;&gt; The AtlanticNote that the highest probabilities are focused tightly around New York City, which also happens to be the most densely populated area in the country. That's a very bad combination. Jeff Masters, author of the must-read storm blog Wunderground, laid out the general problem."[According to last night's forecast], the destructive potential of the storm surge was exceptionally high: 5.7 on a scale of 0 to 6," he wrote. "This is a higher destructive potential than any hurricane observed between 1969 - 2005, including Category 5 storms like Katrina, Rita, Wilma, Camille, and Andrew."China Unicom replaces Cisco devices over security concerns &gt;&gt; Companies &amp; Industries - Morning Whistle - Latest chinese economic, financial, business, political and society newsChina Unicom has replaced Cisco Systems, Inc. (NASDAQ.CSCO) in one of the country's most important backbone networks, citing security reasons, the 21st Century Business Herald reported.The replacement project targets "China169," Cisco's backbone network router of Wuxi node, in Jiangsu province. Analysts indicated that the product vulnerability and back door problems are the main worries of China Unicom.American goose, meet Chinese gander.The best interface is No Interface &gt;&gt; TumblrFascinating blog of "no-interface" products and concepts, such as RFID ski passes. Three simple questions to answer; the design is a lot harder.No.48: The 'houses' in Leinster Gardens &gt;&gt; 150 great things about the London UndergroundThe trains that first ran along the railway line that passes below Leinster Gardens were steam-powered. The locomotives needed somewhere to vent the fumes that built up inside the engines. But where to do this, in a neighbourhood jostling with upmarket residences for whom a large gap in the ground would appear both unsightly and undignified?The answer, as with most tricks of the eye, can be found round the back.From an age where engineering solutions could be figured out with a bit of front. Fantastic blog.Microsoft offers $100 giveaway to line up for Surface &gt;&gt; Brier Dudley's Blog | The Seattle TimesThe company is offering a $100 credit toward a full year of Xbox Music Pass to the first 100 people lined up at Microsoft stores when they open Friday morning. To receive the gift they also have to make a purchase.Launch-day lines that turn initial sales into marketing events have become a phenomenon with big consumer brands ranging from Krispy Kreme stores to Apple devices. Some guy in New York is already lined up for Nintendo's Wii U, which goes on sale 18 November.Microsoft must want to be sure there are enough people at its stores Friday to generate some buzz.Hadn't thought of it in that way, but it's true.Surprise! There's Apple-like lines for Microsoft's new tablet &gt;&gt; Cult of MacBuster Heine lives in Scottsdale, Arizona:Microsoft's new tablet, the Surface RT, may not do everything an iPad can, but it's drawing some pretty big lines to Microsoft retail stores across the country for its launch this morning.Once I got to the Microsoft Store I was shocked to see a line of about 125 people waiting to buy the Surface and was told it'd be a two hour wait before I could get in. The story is the same at other Microsoft Stores across the country with people lining up to purchase Microsoft's hyped tablet that's supposed to compete with the iPad.A Surface retail reality check &gt;&gt; TechPinionsSteve Wildstrom:Whatever the buzz that got some people to line upo for the midnight launch of Surface sales at Microsoft Stores last night seems to have dissipated quickly. This afternoon, I stopped by the popup store in Westfield Montgomery Mall  in Bethesda, Md. It was a slow time of day, about 3pm on a Friday, but the heavily staffed store wasn't having a lot of luck even getting passing shoppers to stop and take a look at its assortment of Surface tablets and Windows 8 laptops. At one point, I counted five customers (at least in the sense they were looking) and 10 store employees, probably mostly contractors.Ah, journalistic shoe leather. Ever wondered why Microsoft's retail stores don't show up in its accounts?The Definitive Windows 8 Linksheet &gt;&gt; Mobile ZoneNot sure what more there is to say. Bookmark it.Dear Android manufacturers: please sell me the phone that I want &gt;&gt; ZDNetDavid Meyer wants a less-big phone:When Apple launched the iPhone 5 and acted, in typical Apple fashion, as though it had just invented the 4-inch form factor, it was a bittersweet moment for Android fans.Sure, Apple was late to the game - my ageing Nexus S is a 4-incher - but it was right about the easy one-hand stretch and pocketability, and there are no longer any high-end Androids for it to compete against in this regard.I don't have tiny hands, but they're not very big either (I conveniently blame this fact for my poor lead guitar skills). The Nexus S is a great phone for me, size-wise. I could comfortably stretch to 4.3 inches. But every time I go into a phone store and pick up the Galaxy S III, for example, I just shake my head and walk away.The other issue is the explosion in the 7-8-inch tablet market. I have a Nexus 7, and if I'm going to indulge in on-the-go gaming or reading, chances are I'm going to use that device. I simply do not need a very large smartphone screen.The UX architect's guide to choosing between HTML5 or native mobile apps &gt;&gt; Don't Code TiredSimple enough flowchart whether you're considering this inside an enterprise or for a public-facing application. What's surprising is how many of the options lead to one answer. (Via Martin Belam on Twitter.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
This has been quite a week in that strange, frenetic universe known as techworld. Two major companies did things that they once vowed they'd never do: Apple launched a small iPad in order to attack similar-sized devices marketed by its rivals – Samsung, Google and Amazon – and Microsoft launched the first computer it's ever made (a tablet called Surface). So we have Apple playing catch-up and Microsoft getting into a business – hardware manufacture – it had hitherto wisely avoided.TheApple launchfollowed the usual pattern: slick presentations by chaps with chronic logorrhea – at least in relation to the word "amazing"; a complaisant audience drawn from the Church of Steve; and announcements of improved versions of existing Apple products. There's a new laptop with a Retina (ultra high-resolution) display, a new Mac mini (a much underrated product IMHO) and an iMac desktop so thin as to be positively anorexic. All nice and dandy – not to mention expensive.But then came one departure from tradition. Just over 55 minutes into the show, as Phil Schiller, Apple's senior marketing guy, was extolling the virtues of the new iPad mini, he suddenly launched into what in industry parlance is known as trashtalk. He embarked on a scathing comparison of le nouvel iPad with "an Android tablet", sneeringly dubbed "the latest, greatest, most favourably reviewed new device", aka the Google Nexus 7. Needless to say, the Apple product was superior in every respect. Its bezel was thinner and made of aluminium, not (yuck!) "plastic". The Google device was "thicker and heavier even though it has a smaller screen", etc etc. You get the message: Nexus 7 may be the same size as the iPad mini, but basically it's trash. (He omitted to mention that the Google device is also at least £100 cheaper than its Apple counterpart.)As an iPad user who has also been using a Nexus 7 for months, I happen to agree with Schiller about the deficiencies of the Google product. It's excellent for some things (email, Evernote, diary keeping, for example) but unsatisfactory for others (web-browsing in particular). Its onscreen keyboard is, well, a bit flaky. And the standard of Android apps is pretty variable. On the other hand, it's well-made and is relatively good value for money. In technology, as in life, you get what you pay for.What made Schiller's attack on the Nexus intriguing was not its content but the fact that he felt the need to make it. It signified a descent from the lofty heights to which Steve Jobs had elevated Apple, so far ahead of the competition that it didn't condescend even to admit its existence. And this subtext suggests that although Apple comprehensively dominates the market for high-end tablets that it effectively created with the iPad, it's now trying to keep up with the market for smaller, pocketable devices. One of the most important advantages of the Nexus 7, for example, is that it really does slip into a jacket pocket. (The same goes for Samsung and Amazon tablets.) In many contexts, that's actually quite useful, which is how Apple comes to be doing something that must be making Steve Jobs rotate in his grave: playing catch-up.Meanwhile, in another part of the forest, Microsoft was launching the first computer it has ever made in the form of itsSurface tablet. This was intriguing in several ways. For one thing, it suggests that the software giant has finally concluded that Steve Jobs was right all along: that in order to make consumer-friendly computers one must control both the hardware and the software. The odd thing, though, is that the bit of the package it seems to have got right is the hardware. "Sleek Tablet but Clumsy Software" is how David Pogue, theNew York Timestechnology columnist, summed it up, echoing early industry reactions to the device. "You have to be fairly cold-blooded," Pogue writes, "to keep your pulse down the first time you see the Surface: its beauty, its potential, its instant transformation from tablet to PC. How incredible that this bold, envelope-pushing design came from Microsoft, a company that for years produced only feeble imitations of other companies' fresh ideas. And how ironic that what lets the Surface down is supposedly Microsoft's speciality: software."I don't have a dog in this fight, but I hope Microsoft gets its tablet act together. In the end, the only thing that keeps big technology companies honest is real competition. I don't want to live in an Apple-dominated world any more than I liked living in a Microsoft-dominated one. Which means, I guess, I will never get an invitation to a Phil Schiller superlatives-fest. In which case, virtue will be its own reward.
The biggest surprise of Sony's brain-training puzzle packageSmart As… is its power – running the Unreal Engine software, this is a low-demand game on, effectively, the same platform as physics-heavy action-shooterDishonored. As a result, it looks unexpectedly pretty.Beyond the gloss there lies a solid collection of mental challenges, split into language, observation, logic and arithmetic categories.Smart As... is designed to be played in small daily doses, gauging your improvement in all four areas and letting you compare results online. With most puzzles taking no more than 30 seconds to complete, it's a fun way to get the grey matter working.However, the free play mode feels restrictive, with extra puzzle types unlocked only on meeting criteria in other areas. Given that you're not allowed to even attempt harder levels until you've attained a three-star ranking on easy, it can feel like you're being talked down to by a game designed to rank intellect.There are no prizes here for originality, butSmart As… does provide entertaining cerebral exercise, perfectly suited to its portable form.
This collection of all three entries of the hugely influential first-person shooter seriesDoominverts the usual rule for vogueish remasters – that the older the game, the less fun it is to play in an age of HD blockbusters. Instead, here, it's the relatively recentDoom 3that struggles, while 1993's originalDoom, the precursor toHalo,Call of Dutyand the rest, still shines.The problem is, perhaps, one of ambition. Released for the Xbox in 2005,Doom 3is just one generation old and it tries, imperfectly, to achieve heights now taken for granted – near-realistic visuals, action woven into a compelling narrative, extra layers of story scattered through the world in PDAs and audio logs. In striving for more, it appeals less. Enemies move stiffly, even comically, as they weave down space station corridors and roll, robot-like, into cover. Everyone – hellspawn and space marine alike – appears lifelessly pale and glazed, like an undead doughnut.DoomandDoom II, however, are still enormously fun. They're simpler, smoother, faster and accomplished – innovative and genre-defining in the face of technological limitations, rather than defined and impoverished by them.
Nintendo'sProfessor Laytonseries tends to divide the critics. To some, it is little more than a puzzle compendium, padded out with filler narrative. To others, it combines an elaborate fictional world with neatly implemented brain-benders. The reality is a little of both, and now the series has come to the 3DS.Professor Layton and the Miracle Maskchallenges the player to accompany its eccentric academic and his assistants in solving the mystery of a masked super-villain terrorising the inhabitants of the fictional town of Monte d'Or. In pursuit of the truth, Layton must solve some 150 puzzles presented to him by the characters he meets. While a hugely varied selection of conundrums present themselves, each is of the well-known variety that sees foxes and geese sharing raft trips, and matchsticks being moved to form squares.Despite this familiar form of puzzling, there are plenty of unique ideas on offer for long-standingLaytonfans, and the game's world is a rich and elaborate one, well realised in 3D, brought to life with good writing and supported by an ornate audio backdrop. Like its forerunners,Miracle Maskremains an elaborate spin on a straight-up puzzle collection, but one so elegant and engrossing, it is hard not to fall for.
At the Google campus in east London last month, an unshaven, scruffily dressed 31-year-old man took to the stage to address a packed room. Introducing the panel beside him – which included David "Two Brains" Willetts, the geekish minister for universities and science, and Mind Candy founder Michael Acton Smith – he remarked that the last time he'd visited the building, he'd been with George Osborne shortly after "that budget" and their ministerial car had been pelted with Cornish pasties (after the chancellor announced a so-called "pasty tax"). It's fair to say that Rohan Silva, the senior prime ministerial adviser and the person many credit with putting east London's technology cluster of startups on the map as "Tech City", enjoyed a rather less hostile welcome this time, as he unveiled plans to open up London's equity markets to high-growth tech companies.The announcement was the latest in a tsunami of initiatives to turn London's East End (according to the press release at the time) into "a world-leading technology city to rival Silicon Valley". The campaign began in the unlikely setting of Brick Lane's sticky-floored Old Truman Brewery,where David Cameron sketched out his technology strategy, which was, according to insiders, heavily moulded by Silva. Among the prime minister's pledges that day were that companies such as Vodafone, Google, Facebook and Intel would invest in the long-term future of the area and that the Olympic Park media centre would become an "accelerator space" after the games.Reactions from east London tech companies – which numbered around 200 at the time – were decidedly mixed. One founderblogged that Downing Street should leave the East End alone: "If you fill east London with Google, Facebook and Intel, the value of property will rise and the creative people will move to Bermondsey", while one leading US investor, John Lilly of Greylock partners, pointed out that "tech hubs are rarely created by governments". For Charles Armstrong, CEO of Trampoline Systems, the initiative had "got mixed in with a policy fig-leaf, which is really about this embarrassment about legacy and the Olympics".Yet two years on, with an estimated five-fold increase of tech companies in the area, Silva has much to crow about – not least last week's considerable coup oflanding Facebook executive Joanna Shieldsto lead theTech City Investment Organisation(TCIO), the UK Trade &amp; Investment vehicle for growing east London's tech zone. TheObserverunderstands that Shields was called at Facebook by headhunters asking whether she could recommend anyone for the role. To their surprise, she said: "Yes. Me." The timing, says an insider, was serendipitous: "After years of working for [large corporations] she wanted to do a public service role."With the departure of chief executive Erik van der Kleij, it was felt that the TCIO required a big-hitter with the profile to impress Silicon Valley – and that Shields fitted the bill. Topping last year'sWired100 listof UK tech influencers, Shields was previously president at AOL and chief executive of UK social network Bebo (which was acquired by AOL for £530m in 2008 and, two years later, sold on for a reported £6.2m). Before joining Facebook, she was Google's MD for Europe, Russia, the Middle East and Africa.As he munches his way through a family pack of nuts and seeds in the Google campus courtyard, Silva says that a government has rarely moved so quickly on a range of policy and legislative fronts. With an annual budget of just £2m to promote the area, TCIO has more or less "bootstrapped" the entire venture, he argues. Simultaneously "the great assets of state" have been deployed to introduce the east London tech community to corporate and venture capital big-hitters, with regular Tech City breakfasts at 10 Downing Street and events at Buckingham Palace and the Foreign and Commonwealth Office. "We even had a Tech City event on the west coast of the US with Prince William and Kate," he says.Silva, who got married this month and has wrongly been reported to be leaving his post, points to three main achievements so far. "The first is the global profile that east London now has. It's true to say that the majority of serious tech people around the world are now aware of Tech City. The second is a long list of government policies, which have flowed directly out of conversations with Tech City companies: 'entrepreneur visas' [a fast-track visa scheme for entrepreneurs], theSeed Enterprise Investment Scheme[of tax breaks], the work on IPOs and opening up of government procurement contracts. Third is the building we're in now. The Google campus literally wouldn't have been here had it not been for us going to Google and saying, 'come to east&nbsp;London'."The prime minister's speech had also named a number of major companies that would invest in the area. Two years later, this, too, can too be chalked up as a success. Among others, Google, Intel, Vodafone, Cisco, Yammer and Airbnb have invested in the capital, while Facebook is opening its first non-US engineering hub. However, everyone interviewed for this article considered Tech City to be very much a work in progress. While entrepreneur visas were widely praised, there was criticism about the hardening of discourse surrounding immigration, which has been capped by the coalition and might put off overseas coding talent, which is in short supply. "What the PM does constantly say is that the brightest and best will always be welcome in the UK, whatever the media discourse," counters Silva. "Where we could do more is go to university campuses around the world to tell people about the entrepreneur visa. We want the next Sergey Brin to come to London and find a home, investment and build a business here."But the next Sergey Brin might not be overly impressed by the quality of broadband to be found in London, and the fact that start-ups have on occasion struggled to persuade providers to connect them. Silva concedes this remains a live issue. "We've just announced £25m for fibre-optic broadband for London. But we're also leaning on BT to get them to roll out their fibre faster. One of the challenges the entrepreneurs were telling us about was that even where fibre is available, you've got to sign a two-year contract, but as a startup you don't know where you're going to be in two months, let alone two years. So we've worked with Virgin on that and they're piloting switch-on-and-off fibre-broadband."As for the Olympic Park, Silva chooses his words carefully. "Our thinking with the Olympic Park is that as a government, we inherited this thing," he says. "We want to make sure companies around the world are aware that it's there and can make use of it. If the likes of Songkick and Mind Candy do turn out to be massive companies, where do they grow to? All we're saying is that there is this fantastic asset there, and if people want to move there, then great."Silva readily accepts there is still more work to do. When pressed for specifics, he says: "There is still not a world-class computer science university in east London. I think that's something the ecosystem needs. There are also some transport things we can look at: high-speed rail links to Europe, links to City Airport and links to other clusters such as Cambridge." What about a third runway at Heathrow? The Downing Street adviser laughs nervously. "I think I'll leave that for Boris [Johnson] and the PM to sort out."
Price £24,785MPG 50.4Top speed 120mphThe green-walled lanes of south Devon are a beautiful place to visit for a holiday. Bursting with flowers and alive with nature, the winding tracks are the arteries that keep Mother Nature in such rude health. But for your car these lanes offer no easygoing respite from the daily grind. They are a traumatising boot camp hell bent on sending your forecourt-fresh motor home in tatters. Thorns wait to lacerate your paintwork, gaping pot holes linger ready to devour your suspension, while those velvety, moss-covered boulders loiter in the damp verges primed to sabotage your sills. A&nbsp;week in Devon puts years on your car and will send it home distressed, tired  and battered.The car I chose to inflict such punishment on wasSeat's all-conquering Alhambra – a tuff mudder if ever there was one. No nonsense, economical and business-like, Seat's large MPV is used to winning. Year in year out it cleans up when it comes to award time. Earlier this year it was namedWhat Car?'s back-to-back MPV champion.It's not that I had a personal vendetta against the Alhambra, but it promised to do everything I needed it to. Room for seven adults: check. Huge boot: check. Five-star safety rating: check. Fifty miles to the gallon: check. Decent stereo: check. Engaging drive: check. Great looks… well, OK, it's  not exactly a stunner.  It simply looks like  what it is: a mammoth, parsimonious people carrier.As probably the best-value large MPV on the road, most Alhambras have little more to look forward to than a life of servitude: long days and late-night minicabbing with the odd early-morning airport transfer thrown in for variety. But those that escape the rat race – to Devon, say, or to work uncomplainingly for a multi-child family – will reward you amply.All cars want to play the Tardis card: small on the outside, big on the inside. But the Alhambra trumps the rest. It's biggish on the outside and absolutely vast on the inside. Its boot is a yawning maw, ready to swallow, in my case, everything from surfboards to a portable barbecue, plus luggage for seven for a week. But like a large man holding in his stomach for that terrible family beach shot, the Alhambra takes up less space than it should. Its wheels are pushed out to the corners, and the rear doors slide rather than winging open – meaning you can squeeze into the smaller parking spaces and still actually get out of the car. And inside all five of the rear seats can fold flat to create enough space for a kingsize mattress. Combined with the full-length panoramic roof, you could stretch out on your back and look at the autumn rain falling with impunity.The square shape means visibility is superb and Seat has the handling of a much smaller, more agile car. With vehicles built for size, driveability can only really be seen as a bonus. The Alhambra steers well, offers a cushy ride and its eager 2-litre diesel is quiet, responsive and never whines (just like my children). And 50mpg, too – come on, that's a deal-closer.Should you buy one? Without doubt. The only problem is that you won't want to take a car you like so much on holiday.Tyres to treesEnvironmentally conscious motorists are being given the chance to turn their unwanted cars into newly planted trees.Scrap Car Plant Tree, which launched this week, allows motorists to donate unwanted vehicles and uses the money raised through their disposal to plant trees in a city of their choice. The innovative and free-to-use recycling scheme enables people to offset their car's carbon footprint and offers the most environmentally friendly means of car disposal currently available in the UK. Money made from each disposal will go to UK charity Trees for Cities, which plants trees and creates green spaces throughout Britain's urban areas. Scrap Car Plant Tree expects to fund the planting of 13 saplings on average per disposal which will offset around a year's carbon emissions – although some vehicles will be able to provide significantly more. Collection of the vehicle is taken care of through the site and users are notified after the disposal just how much money was raised to fund urban tree planting.Alex Harvey fromGiveacar.co.uk, who manage the vehicle's disposal, said: "We are thrilled to be part of an idea that will have such a positive impact on the way that people think about their end of life vehicles and the damage they may have done in their lifetime. Each car that is disposed of will offset at least one year's carbon emissions and vehicles which are auctioned could provide significantly more carbon relief, which can only be a good thing for the environment. Everybody is aware of how bad cars are for the environment so what better way to give something back than by funding the planting of new trees when getting rid of an unwanted vehicle?"So, if your car has reached the end of the road and you would like to donate it, call 020 0011 1664 or visitScrapCarPlantTree.org.uk.What's your favourite Bond car?AsSkyfallunleashes the next wave of Bond madness (or Bond envy), those of us who are more interested in what 007 is driving than which evil mastermind he is saving the world from, will be weighing up that eternal question: what's your favourite Bond car? To help you in your debate, here is a brilliant infographic from the dealer group Evans Halshaw:evanshalshaw.com/bondcarsEmail Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in one place
Wendy DevolderFounder and chief executive of Skills&nbsp;Matter"Provide tech companies with funding or tax breaks to fund training""The biggest issue our community faces is the difficulty recruiting highly skilled developers. Tech companies' success often depends on the skills of their development team. This is why both tech startups and large technology-dependent enterprises are desperate to find experienced, highly skilled software professionals. Every day, we are asked by tech startups how and where they can find good people. Our jobs board at Skills Matter is absolutely packed with vacancies advertising 'cool' projects and teams, begging people to join them."The government can help in a number of ways. Provide tech companies with funding or tax breaks to fund training in advanced technology. And relax immigration rules for the highly skilled. In the meantime, we should provide the next generation with actual programming skills (as opposed to MS Office skills) very early on – by supporting initiatives such asComputing at SchoolandApps for Good, so that in 10 years' time, we'll be in a better position."Joe CohenFounder and chief executive of&nbsp;Seatwave"Make all of London Tech City""The government focuses on publicising Old Street and the Olympic Park – but so far the winners are all over&nbsp;London. Betfair are in Hammersmith, Spotify are in Soho, Wonga are located in Camden and Skype in Fitzrovia. Whether it's promoting London or east London [as a tech hub], from a PR point of view, wouldn't make that much difference. If you look at what's going on around Old Street, while there are certainly some success stories, you have companies at an earlier stage with a higher probability of failure."Why wouldn't you just claim the winners, wherever they are in London? History may prove me wrong when Crossrail is finished and maybe the Olympic Park [will] become a really popular place. But until that happens, I can't imagine you'll have many people who'll move into that space of their own free will, without the government twisting their arms."Broadband provisioning is also a major issue. It's amazing to me, because you would just think that market forces would solve this – but it doesn't seem to be happening. If I start a company tomorrow and ring up to get a dedicated line in, it's going to take 100 days. And that's if you're lucky."Neil RimerPartner, Index Ventures"Lionise entrepreneurs""I'm very impressed with the way the government has positioned London as a hub for entrepreneurship. I think lionising entrepreneurs is a good thing – having educators and officials who recognise the value and importance of entrepreneurs in society. There are parts of the world where entrepreneurs are looked up to much more than here. I read about an entrepreneur here who said when he tells people he's an entrepreneur, they&nbsp;feel sorry for him, as if he can't get&nbsp;a real job. That shouldn't be the case."[Tech] is the next industrial revolution and these people are the pioneers. This is what the country needs. You can't continue to rely on natural resources, traditional goods and insurance companies for growth and job creation. Schools and universities need to do more to promote entrepreneurship as a lifestyle, a career and an ethic. They need to make sure that all children are given access to great education in maths and science and engineering so we don't end up with a lopsided employment pool. We invested in a company calledCode Academy. Their thesis is that coding is the new English – if you don't program you'll be programmed. The government putting their weight behind that would be great."Hussein KanjiAngel investor"Make New York the model, not&nbsp; Silicon Valley""[Attempting to rival Silicon Valley] is boneheaded. The way to think of London is the way you think of financial services markets in offshoot countries. Singapore and Hong Kong are vibrant markets in Asia. However, they are markets that are subservient to the two global markets that really matter in finance – New York and London. [In tech terms] London has a very good shot at becoming an offshoot market. Really what the government should be focused on is how we work in harmony with Silicon Valley. A lot of that is bridge-building between those two economies and they've not done a good job there so far."The best parallel for success, if you take this thesis, is New York. New York was by and large a nonexistent tech centre, and then a few things happened that made a material difference. One was Google set up an engineering centre. One of the best ways to bridge is exactly what New York did – get a company that is out on the west coast to open up not a sales office but an engineering centre&nbsp;here.&nbsp;The&nbsp;government needs to spend a lot of&nbsp;energy doing this, because without that depth of managerial and engineering talent, you will not get big companies in your&nbsp;backyard."Stephen BallGeneral manager of Hitachi Data Systems UK"Develop the next generation of coders""We all heard the prime minister's speech, but the reality is I don't know what Tech City is. I've been in this industry for 25 years and as a leader of a big [technology] company in the UK, and while I do accept that our focus isn't working with internet startups, I would have expected Tech City to have hit my radar on a regular basis. But it's just not happening. I would have also expected [the government] to come to me to see how I could help incubate some of those skills."We could help some of these young&nbsp;companies with things like mentoring and, possibly, invest in them. But no one's asked that question of me or any colleagues in other [similar] organisations. Also, I don't see anything in the school curriculum that is going to help us create the next Google in this country in terms of coding capability. My kids aren't allowed to take their phones to school [to build apps], and while they do take ICT classes, it's all based around Windows rather than coding and social media. We're going to have a 10-year skills deficit here, when it comes to building&nbsp;the [tech] superstars of the future, unless we start building coding into the curriculum."Glenn ShoosmithFounder and chief executive ofBookingBug"Do more to boost London  tech flotations""As all of our companies grow and mature, where you look to float for the second stage of growth, including larger-scale later investment, is crucial – and London is not geared well for that. Traditionally a lot of companies head to&nbsp;Silicon Valley for the large, later-stage investment, because that investment is there. Equally, when you want to float you still head to New York. Two things need to be done. The first is happening slowly anyway, which is educating the market itself. Second, the&nbsp;rules and regulations around floating are considerably more&nbsp;onerous and difficult to go through here."I've seen several companies abandon float plans in London and shift them to the Nasdaq [in New York] because of it. The government is working on that, but more needs to be done. Much more also needs to be done with government procurement. When I spoke at the launch [of Tech City], I talked about trying to build a booking system for sport. It took two years and we're finally working very closely with Sport England – and they&nbsp;wouldn't have worked with us until the government said: 'You have to work with some startups.' I've spoken to a lot of companies who are still quite&nbsp;frustrated when it comes to dealing with potential [public-sector] tender processes."Maria MollandChief European officer,Fab.com"Change the rules for the enterprise investment scheme""When I first started talking to Tracy [Doree] and Vivienne [Bearman, co-founders of the design retail site that started life as Llustre], one of the many things I loved was the location of their office. It is located just west of Silicon Roundabout – an area sprinkled with fashion boutiques, up-and-coming and more established designers, and unique cafes selling vintage clothing and strong espresso to budding tech entrepreneurs."That inspiring setting is partly because of the government's effort in encouraging large digital companies such as Google, entrepreneurs and investors to set up shop in Tech City. The government was smart to see that as one of the keys to the success of Silicon Valley, but they should be looking at this as just one initiative among many to make London a global centre of tech. Additional priorities include education programmes that encourage young Brits to pursue careers as entrepreneurs, engineers and designers. Organisations such as thePrince's Trustare getting this kickstarted, but they could use help. The UK needs a group of angel investors who are eager to invest their time and their millions in helping businesses get off the ground. This could be helped by the government changing the rules for the enterprise investment scheme (EIS)."
When I was a&nbsp;baby, it was nice going in&nbsp;the car. My&nbsp;mother would have me on her knee in the front. And she'd let me hang on to the steering wheel. (Yeah, mum was driving, you&nbsp;sexist.) Sometimes she'd give me a&nbsp;crafty puff on her Disque Bleu, too. Irresponsible, you might say, but look, I turned out perfect.It's different now. I have a baby – I&nbsp;may have mentioned it. The poor chap has to go in the back, strapped down in his horrid little gurney seat, facing backwards! Where's the joy, where's the education? He can't even see out of the window. Health and safety gone loop the effing loop, if you ask me.At least this car has a "cielo" panoramic glass roof, so he can look up at the sky, and dream. It's&nbsp;a&nbsp;"cielo" panoramic glass roof with ambient lighting, actually, meaning at night it's framed in a&nbsp;mauve glow. Wow, it's like being in&nbsp;a club in the&nbsp;1990s. Brilliant. He&nbsp;likes it, too.&nbsp;I've never known him so content in&nbsp;a car.The 208 is nicer – and also a better&nbsp;car – than the 207 that it replaces. It's lighter, lither, prettier, more in spirit&nbsp;with the iconic 205 that started off Peugeot's whole Two-Oh-blah supermini thing way back in the&nbsp;1980s, and&nbsp;that anyone over the age of 35 will probably have&nbsp;memories of – fond ones, in my&nbsp;case.The ride is quite firm, and the one&nbsp;I've got is nimble rather than quick. But the go-kart steering wheel cons you into thinking you're driving something sportier than you are. It's really small, that wheel, and low, perfect for tiny hands to grip on to… no, I know, we're not doing that any more, he's in the back, tied down, looking at the sky.Ooh, and there's a fancy screen set&nbsp;into the dashboard. Like an iPad&nbsp;(or other similar tablet computer, he adds, in the name of fairness), though less fun, because it's just got music and maps and traffic and a couple of other car-related things. No Twitter, or Angry Birds. And it's only on the posher, higher-spec models.As is the "cielo" panoramic glass roof, in fact. Which is what you'd expect, but these things do push up the&nbsp;price. A lot. Seventeen and a&nbsp;half&nbsp;grand this "Feline" one costs,&nbsp;when the cheapest petrol model (which might not be quite so&nbsp;fuel-efficient, but still produces less than the magic 100g/km of C02) is only ten and a half grand. I'm going off that panoramic roof,&nbsp;rapidly.So, sorry, no more cielo for you, Sunshine. [Reaches into the back.] Now come up front with Daddy. Granny says it's OK.Peugeot 208 Feline e-HDi 115Price£17,445Top speed118mphAcceleration0-62mph in 10.8 secondsCombined fuelconsumption74.3mpgCO2emissions99g/kmEcorating8/10Cool rating8/10
If you still prefer real books to electronic gizmos, then Amazon'sKindle Paperwhite– which has just started shipping in the UK – is a good reason to think again.Where earlier Kindle e-readers had grey screens, the Paperwhite has a white, frontlit, E-Ink screen with greatly increased contrast, so it comes much closer to the ideal of black ink on white paper. There are some shiny tablets that could almost double as mirrors, but there's no way you can see your face in the flat matt screen of a Paperwhite.The exterior design has also come a long way from the originalKindlewith its push-button keyboard. The Paperwhite's body is pleasantly matt and black, with no visible buttons. The only things that break the surface are the tiny on-off button, indicator light, and micro USB port on the bottom edge.Although some people will hanker after a physical "next page" button, you can move to the next page just by touching the screen. You can still read one-handed while standing on a bus or train. However, you might need two hands when you want to touch or tap a thin strip of screen down the left hand side, which takes you back a page, or along the top, which calls up the menu. (You can reach all three areas if you are left-handed.)Tablet users will note that you can swipe across the Paperwhite screen to turn pages, but why would you bother when the lightest tap does the job?The menu icons are easy to understand. From left to right, there's a home button, a back-arrow, a lightbulb for setting the light level, a shopping trolley, a magnifying glass for search, and three horizontal bars (like the ones on Google's Chrome browser) for a set of drop-down menu options. These options change according to what you're doing. When reading a book, for example, they include Add Bookmark, View Notes and Marks, and Reading Progress. One option switches from portrait to landscape mode. This is useful for graphical material, though the image quality is rather poor.Amazon’s Kindle Paperwhite is light and its backlit screen makes it the most comfortable to use ereader on the market right now. Photograph: AmazonThe lightbulb menu provides 24 levels of brightness, to cope with a wide range of lighting conditions from sunlight to complete darkness. The backlighting is unusually even across the screen, except for a thin strip along the bottom. At the maximum setting, the screen is very bright, while the minimum takes you back to the bad old days of black-on-grey ereading.The Paperwhite is designed to have the light on all the time. Amazon says: "a single charge lasts up to eight weeks, based on half an hour of reading per day with wireless off and the light setting at 10."One big advantage of e-readers over paper books is that you can change the typeface and font size to suit your preferences. The Paperwhite offers a choice of six typefaces including Baskerville (with serifs) and Helvetica (without). Each comes in seven sizes from roughly 9 1/2 points to about 36 point text, and even the smallest size looks sharp on the 758 x 1024-pixel screen. You can also change the line spacing and margins.An e-reader can also measure your "reading time". The Paperwhite notes how often you turn pages and gives you an estimated time left in book. With physical books, you can see if you are close to the end, and the Paperwhite provides a substitute by counting down the hours and minutes to go.The Paperwhite also offers limited parental controls to block access to the somewhat primitive web browser, the Kindle store, and the Cloud where copies of all your books are stored. You can therefore let your kids read books without having to worry about them downloading inappropriate material or ordering tons of stuff from Amazon.The Paperwhite has no headphone jack or loudspeaker for listening to audio books or playing background music. Photograph: AmazonBut while Amazon has improved the Paperwhite's core functionality, some things have been lost. There's no headphone jack or loudspeaker for listening to audio books or playing background music, which you could do with a tablet. Also, the Paperwhite has only 1.25GB of free memory (out of the 2GB total). Amazon reckons this "holds up to 1,100 books", but it doesn't leave much room for your own PDF files, Microsoft Word documents, unprotected books etc, which you can load onto the Kindle by emailing them to a special Amazon address.The space problem could be solved if the Paperwhite had an SD memory card slot, but it doesn't. Of course, your books and emailed documents are stored "in the cloud" so you can redownload them via Wi-Fi (802.11b/g/n) just by touching them. But if you are often out of Wi-Fi range on beaches, trains, boats and planes, consider stumping up an extra £60 for the 3G version with Amazon's free Whispernet access.So, all round, the Kindle Paperwhite looks like the best e-reader on the market. The problem is, the market is changing. There's a big gulf between a £69 Kindle and a £250 laptop or a £400 tablet, but not between a £109 Paperwhite and a £129Kindle Firetablet (with "special offers"; ie ads), or even aGoogle Nexus 7(from £170). Indeed, the 3G version of the Paperwhite (£169) costs £10 more than the Kindle Fire HD (£159).I put the Paperwhite next to my Nexus 7 running Amazon's free Kindle app and there's not that much in it. The Nexus 7 is pretty good for reading novels, and considerably better for reading newspapers and magazines, browsing the web, listening to music, watching movies, playing games and so on. Of course, the Nexus 7 is a lot heavier and it has a much shorter battery life, but it does a lot more.I've not had a chance to try a Kindle Fire, which is Amazon's entry-level tablet, but its Kindle app does much the same job as the Paperwhite. It's a bit bulkier and almost twice as heavy (400g v 213g), but it has more storage (16GB v 2GB), a bigger colour screen (7in v 6in), and multimedia features the Paperwhite lacks. You can see why Amazon now feels the need to offer both.Pros:Light weight and long battery life make the Paperwhite almost perfect for reading novels and other long-form literature on the move, and its illuminated screen means you can read comfortably in bed. Books download quickly. It looks good and feels well made.Cons:No colour, no sound, limited storage and no expansion facilities. Only £20 cheaper than a Kindle Fire tablet.
After a missed week last week, this week is a bumper 30 Best post for new Android apps, covering the last fortnight.The list doesn't include games, as they get their own separate post:this week's selectionincluded Android titles like Ayakashi: Ghost Guild, Beach Buggy Blitz, Arsenal Fantasy Manager 2013 and Contract Killer 2.iOS apps get their own separate post too: you canfind that here. For now, here's the pick of the Google Play store from the last two weeks.Great Pumpkin Charlie BrownIn good time for Halloween, this book-app from Loud Crow Interactive sees Charlie Brown and his Peanuts friends waiting for the Great Pumpkin, with lots of interactivity, voices and music from a 1966 TV special, and a Peanuts avatar creator to help children make their own characters.Dragon Mobile Assistant (Beta)I'll get the disappointing news out of the way first: this doesn't appear to be available in the UK yet. It's Nuance's new conversational assistant software for Android devices, which is in beta for devices running the Ice Cream Sandwich and Jelly Bean variants. It has you making calls, sending texts, updating social networks, using maps, reserving restaurants and other tasks by chatting.Musicovery PlayerMusicovery is one of a crop of apps encouraging people to play music by their mood, picking songs from their own collections, but also making its own recommendations for tracks that they don't own already.FontlyOne for designers and the design-conscious, this: an app to "capture, map, and explore the world of vintage typography", with a map-based guide to interesting signs and typography in the real world. You're encouraged to upload and tag your own examples too.PerfMon - Performance MonitorThere's a buzz around the PerfMon utility, which is a floating performance monitor tool that hovers over an app that you're using, showing how your device is running. Useful for developers, or for other Android users who suspect an app is a tad crunchy on the processor.UbertalkDAR.fm's Ubertalk app has a job on its hands swaying Android radio-heads away from TuneIn Radio and other apps. Still, it's worth a look: streaming music and talk radio, as well as the ability to record some shows for listening at your leisure.Jaxtr Voice: Cheap Int'l CallsVoice-over-IP apps are ten-a-penny on Android, so can Jaxtr's new international-focused one cut through the clutter? It makes calls via 3G or Wi-Fi, as well as offering access numbers in 40 countries when neither is available. Some countries can be called for free, and online voicemail is included.Free calls - CommAlso covered in this week's iOS roundup, this is a curveball app from DeNA, which is best known for its social mobile games. Comm is another Voice-over-IP app, which adds photo-sharing and instant messaging into the mix.BeerMap.coRemember the days on iOS when virtual pints of beer were all the rage? BeerMap is an app that wants to get Android users supping pints in the real world: a "social beer tasting app" for drinkers to share their ratings and notes for both tipples and pubs in the UK.Skypath for AndroidSkypath is the latest social photography app for Android, which runs alongside a desktop application of the same name. The idea: it synchronises photos between your Android device, your PC and the ImageShack storage service.Rightmove Samsung TV RemoteThis is a niche app, but it's an interesting sign of the way things may develop for other apps in the near future. It has one use: "Use your Android as a remote for the RightmoveTV app on Samsung 2012 SmartTVs", developed by Rightmove itself, the online property site. The app can also send texts and call individual estate agents, and share details of properties on social networks.The Official Alibaba AppHong Kong-based B2B marketplace Alibaba now has an Android app for searching its millions of products, browsing suppliers and contacting them with enquiries. The app also saves favourite products for later reference.LimeseumThis is an app tied to one specific location: the ancient Roman fort at Ruffenhofen in Germany, but I thought it was worth including for its glimpse at how augmented reality technology is good for more than adverts jumping out of chocolate bar wrappers. Designed to be used while walking around the fort, it offers videos, panoramic pics and text about the site.Timeline - Art MuseumAnd more culture here: an app that offers paintings from 80 masters (Da Vinci, Van Gogh and Monet included) arranged in a timeline from the Renaissance through to the present day. Every work and artist gets their own profile, although the developer appears to be hoping the use of some copyrighted works will squeak through "in accordance with fair use principles", which could be interesting.Doodle JoyAndroid-owning parents have an increasing collection of good apps for their children to use, with Doodle Joy being a welcome addition to the list. It's a drawing app for kids offering more than 20 digital brushes, and the ability to save the process of drawing, not just the final image.Hotels by OrbitzHotel-bookings is a hot area on all smartphones at the moment, with Orbitz's new app the latest trying to help people book a room and get a discount. In this case, the latter can include up to 50% off listed prices, with the promise of thousands of hotels to choose from globally.FusionPro Music Player BetaThere's always scope for improvement of the default music players in smartphones and tablets. FusionPlayer is trying to make Android's "simpler and easier", with a single screen containing the entire player. It also pulls in lyrics and YouTube videos.TwythmAnother music app here, but one focused on social sharing. In fact, it's focused on Twitter: a quick way for Android devices to share details of the song currently being played with friends.Aviary Stickers: FootballThis is an add-on pack for Aviary's Photo Editor – and really an excuse to write again about that app, which is excellent. Like the company's other packs (grunge, nostalgia etc) it provides 15 virtual stickers with which to customise photos, then share them with friends. The football is the American variety, by the way.Photo PunchPhoto punch? Nothing to do with violence. Instead, this is about cutting out a portion of one photo, then pasting it into another. Cat head on human bodies, that kind of thing. Memes. Anyway, it's a quirky take on photo manipulation that appears to be sprouting wings on the Google Play store.Educam Classroom ViewerAnother app that's a sign of how technology is developing – this time in classrooms. It's an app for viewing, capturing, annotating and sharing live images from a document camera, visualiser or digital microscope, for use in classrooms where students have their own devices to hand to watch on.InstaMessage"Less talking more wub wub" reads one of the sample messages in the Google Play screenshots for this photo-manipulation app, designed to be used with Instagram. The idea: use themes created by its designers with your own words, posting to Instagram but also Facebook, WhatsApp, Twitter and Pinterest.GreenDay - Autism BehaviorActually, this is an app for all children, not just those with autism – even if the latter are its initial target group. For parents, it's about putting in place a behaviour plan for a child, who earns tokens for behaving well, with a colour-based system letting them know when they need to moderate their actions. The app supports up to three children.Pedometer PlusNot just a Pedometer! It's a Pedometer Plus! What's the plus? That would be measuring more than just the number of steps you take: think calories, speed and time. It also tracks your routes using GPS, although the feature can be turned off if you prefer to save battery life.NewsBlurFlipboard and the rest mean it's tough for any new social news-reader app to get a foothold on the major smartphone platforms. NewsBlur is having a go though: a way to read articles via Google Reader, share and comment on them with friends, and see what other people with similar tastes are reading too.GratafyAnother US-only app for now: an "experience-based social gifting platform". That means sending real things to friends as gifts via social networks: food, drinks and desserts at a range of venues, which can then be redeemed in those places by using the app.Movember MobileIt's nearly that time of year again, when men up and down the land start growing furry upper-lip slugs and raising money for charity. Movember now has an Android app too: helping people manage their fundraising campaigns, and post updates and photos on the Movember site.Halloween - 13 Free AppsIt's nearly Halloween. Is anyone really looking for "free Halloween apps" and an app to find them? That's what MagicSolver is hoping, with the promise of an unlucky 13 app recommendations in and around Halloween.abtoVNC Viewer for AndroidThis is a showcase for its developer's SDK for other developers, rather than an app for consumers. It's a viewer app for logging in to remote desktops, altering their settings and then working with files stored on the computer. There's lots of competition in this area, though.HSA Skin Cancer AwarenessThis is very much a professional app: for hair and beauty staff. The idea being it helps them learn and recognise the signs of skin cancer among their clients. It ties into a wider skin cancer awareness campaign in the UK.That's our selection, but what new Android apps have you been using this week? Make your recommendations in the comments section.
My nine-year-old has called me at work. "Mum, it came and it's so cool."We had been eagerly anticipating the arrival of a review copy of the new Moshi Monsters game for the Nintendo DS. For a nine-year-old well-versed in the world of Moshis – we've got the posters, the stickers, the magazines, the cuddly toy, the lampshade … sorry, stop me there - this is Christmas come early.The last game,Moshi Monsters: Moshlings Zoo, spent 23 weeks at No 1 in the UK DS chart, so I'm guessing my daughter is not alone in her excitement. So, how doesMoshi Monsters: Moshlings Theme Parkstack up? Allow one overexcited expert to tell you:"What I really like about it is that it is so different to the last one. It's got different graphics and a really good story. Basically, you're taking all your Moshlings from Moshling Zoo on holiday to a fun park."You have to travel through worlds and make the Moshi fun park even bigger and more fun. You play lots of fun games along the way like Katsuma's Bounce. It's so different and exciting, it's like a world of its own. You don't know what's going to happen next."I gave the first game six out of 10 but this one has really improved. I give it 9½ out of 10. Next time they bring one out it's probably going to be a tenner."Kitty Croft, age nineMoshi Monsters: Moshlings Theme Park for Nintendo DS and Nintendo 3DS  is out now
If you can find Apple's acknowledgement – ordered by a judge – that Korean rival Samsung did not infringe its iPad design on its website, you've either got a big screen or sharp eyes. Or both.As ordered by the court of appeal, Apple on Friday posted a linkat the bottom of its UK websiteentitled simply "Samsung/Apple UK judgement", on the same line and minimal font size as its terms of use, privacy and cookies policies.For most users, finding it would require scrolling down a page dominated by pictures of its new iPad mini, iMacs and iPhone.The link will remain there for one month, as ordered by the judges. The company has also been ordered to take out advertisements in publications including the Daily Mail, Financial Times and T3 magazine to "correct the damaging impression" that Samsung copied its designs.The acknowledgement is the latest in an ongoing worldwide series of court battles between Apple and Samsung, its biggest rival in the smartphone and tablet market.The South Korean company already leads the smartphone market, having shipped twice as many smartphones worldwide – about 56m – as Apple did between July and October.Apple has sued Samsung over accusations of infringing its patents and designs in multiple countries, including the US, UK, Germany, Australia and Japan.Samsung has countersuedover both design and standards-essential patents– although the latter has triggered investigations into whether it is abusing its position in the US and Europe.The appeal court judges did accede to Apple's request that it should not have to put the acknowledgement on its home page in order to keep it "uncluttered".Sir Robin Jacobsaid: "All that need be added is a link entitled Samsung/Apple UK judgment. I think that would be appropriate and proportionate."Apple has taken that allowance literally – and also indulged in a subtle piece of passive-aggressive publicity.Thetext of the acknowledgementtakes extracts fromthe decision in July by Judge Colin Birss, who said that there could be no confusion in the mind of an informed person between Apple's iPad and Samsung's Galaxy Tab tablet designs: "From the front they belong to the family which includes the Apple design; but the Samsung products are very thin, almost insubstantial members of that family with unusual details on the back. They do not have the same understated and extreme simplicity which is possessed by the Apple design. They are not as cool."Apple also take the chance to add in some extra information that was not in Birss's ruling, pointing to a case in Germany where the court found that Samsung engaged in unfair competition by copying the iPad design and pointing to its US win, where a jury found Samsung guilty of infringing on Apple's design and utility patents, awarding more than $1bn (£620m) in damages to Apple.It rounds that off with what might be seen as a subtle swipe at Birss's decision: "So while the UK court did not find Samsung guilty of infringement, other courts have recognised that in the course of creating its Galaxy tablet, Samsung willfully copied Apple's far more popular iPad."
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?It's got to be the satnav, and it's improved my life because I don't get lost any more. I was always terrible at reading maps – I didn't even know if I was holding it the right way up or not.When was the last time you used it, and what for?To find my way to the Prince Charles Theatre in Leicester Square for the premiere of Red Dwarf X.What additional features would you add if you could?I would love Basil Fawlty to be the voice of my satnav. It would be great if you could get celebrity characters doing satnav voices. Imagine having Rimmer doing your satnav for you ...Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?I don't think so, I think it's here to stay. I think maps are dead, I think maps will be obsolete in 10 years. I do Google Earth and all that kind of stuff now. I actually went on a history tour of all the houses I used to live in growing up, and there's perfect pictures of them. There's one where there's someone in a bedroom window upstairs. I think that's really kind of creepy, in a way. You can stalk people from the comfort of your own living room.What always frustrates you about technology in general?That I left school the year our school got its first computer, so I've never been very computer literate at all. In fact, I'm no good on them. If I have to do something, my 14-year-old daughter generally shows me what I've got to do. And the fact that she's so computer-savvy, and she can type like 135 words a minute – I just get completely lost with it.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?I did have a ZX81 computer that we used for video games. It never worked – it never loaded, it never did anything, it was absolutely awful.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Read the instructions!Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I'm a luddite, a definite luddite. I wish I wasn't, but I am. Although you do see pensioners and people like that now going on computer courses and learning how to do things. My wife often encourages me, saying: "Why don't you go on a little course so that you're more comfortable around this technology?" Why do that when you've got people who'll do it for you?Mac or PC, and why?I can't use the Mac at all. We had PCs in the green room at Coronation Street, and I can generally get on to Google, and look up something on YouTube – I'm not completely useless. But I can't use the Mac at all. I'm going to have to get a few lessons on the Mac from my 14-year-old.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Absolutely brilliant idea – I want one.What piece of technology would you most like to own?A Bugatti Veyron. Two – one for the week and one for Sunday best• Craig Charles has, for almost 25 years, played Dave Lister on the sci-fi sitcom Red Dwarf. The new series, Red Dwarf X, is currently airing on digital channel Dave and will be out on Blu-ray and DVD from 19 November
Actually, "this fortnight" would be more accurate: Last week's planned top iOS apps post went missing due to travel, so it's a bumper crop of 30 this week to make amends.As ever, the list doesn't include games, as they get their own separate post:this week's selectionincluded iOS titles like Letterpress, Pocket Clothier and Arsenal Fantasy Manager 2013.Android apps get their own separate post too, which will be published later in the day.Update:it's live now. For now, here's the pick of the App Store from the last fortnight.Atlas by CollinsThere is huge scope still for connected touchscreen devices to reinvent the very idea of an atlas. Collins is one of the publishers moving in that direction, describing its Atlas by Collins app as less a book, and more a "constantly evolving data visualisation tool". That means overlaying different sources of data on virtual globes – at this stage including 3D maps, political maps, environmental data, population statistics and energy resources. More will follow.iPhone / iPadMe BooksI wrote about this at more lengthearlier in the week: it's a follow-up to the Peppa Pig Me Books and Ladybird Classic Me Books apps, selling a range of digital picture books via in-app purchase. A "Draw and Record" feature enables your children to record their own dialogue and sounds for the stories, which include both classic and modern tales.iPhone / iPadSigned StoriesMore digital stories for children sold via in-app purchase here, but this time the publisher is ITV. Based on the Signed Stories website and TV series, this app includes British and American Sign Language with every story, making them accessible to deaf and hearing children alike, as well as kids with special educational needs including autism, dyslexia, Down's syndrome and Asperger's.iPhone / iPadNigella Quick Collection for iPadPublisher Random House has upsized Nigella Lawson's popular iPhone cookery app to iPad, with more than 100 recipes, full-screen photos and videos, and a voice-control feature for use in floury kitchens. You can add your own voice and text notes to recipes, and an additional "Party Collection" pack is available via in-app purchase.iPadTunigo PlayThis is the latest impressive iPhone music app to be built on top of streaming service Spotify. If you have a premium account on the latter, Tunigo Play serves up playlists from experts and other users, while also alerting you every day to new releases. Music news is thrown in for good measure.iPhoneToca TailorIt's been an exceptional week for new children's apps on iOS, including a new title from Toca Boca. Its Toca Tailor gets kids designing clothes for four virtual characters, dragging and dropping patterns or creating their own by taking photographs of real-world objects.iPhone / iPadCirca NewsCirca News is the latest attempt at providing a new way to keep up with the news on iPhone, with the bold claim that "reading long articles just to stay up to date is a thing of the past". The emphasis is thus on short, to-the-point updates on key stories, with links to the longer versions. It has more of a US spin, but may be interesting elsewhere in the world.iPhoneRara.comStreaming music service Rara.com wants to take on the Spotifys and Deezers of the world, and it finally has an iOS app to do it with – its Android version came out earlier in the year. Expect on-demand streaming, editorial recommendations and charts, paid for with a £9.99 monthly subscription for web+mobile access.iPhone / iPadSongbird.meIt's also a good week for new music apps, as you can tell. This is the new app from pivoted music-startup Songbird, which gets you to sign up to artists that you like, then delivers their updates – while enabling you to post photos in return and find new music you might like.iPhone / iPadPudsey's Dream WheelsIt's nearly time for the BBC's Children in Need telethon, and this time round it has an official app. The idea: children (and quite possibly parents) design their own virtual cars in the app, and can then order merchandise – mugs, t-shirts, stickers etc – with that design, with the proceeds going to the charity.iPhone / iPadRappelSomething more serious here: a marvellously-slick iPhone client for project management service Basecamp, using its Basecamp Next API. The app can be used to keep tabs on projects, assign tasks, create and join discussions, and upload files from the iPhone.iPhoneAnimal SnApp: FarmThis is the latest well-crafted children's app from British publisher Nosy Crow, working with Axel Scheffler – of Gruffalo-illustrating fame. Based on a farm, it gets kids to unlock six rhyming stories based on its animals, with fun slide-puzzles. A characterful mix of storytelling, play and excellent illustrations.iPhone / iPad#PANHere's the latest iPhone client for microblogging service App.net, which has positioned itself as a more-open alternative to Twitter. The app enables you to browse your stream, post updates, watch hashtags and send to Instapaper and Pocket. It costs £4.99, but that price includes media hosting for photos, video and audio on the Hashpan.com service, as well as push notification servers.iPhoneGrimm's Sleeping BeautyStoryToys has made its name creating interactive "pop-up" book-apps for various Brothers Grimm fairytales on iOS. Its latest release is Sleeping Beauty, but with a few more features than previous apps. That means games and puzzles alongside the story, which is told over 35 pages of text, and 11 3D scenes.iPhone / iPadSnapjoyThere are plenty of apps for sharing photos, but what about organising the ones you've taken? That's the idea behind the Snapjoy app, which promises that it "organises your photos and makes them accessible anywhere", using a timeline to sort them by year and month.iPhoneYoga StudioIt may sound counter-intuitive to clutch an iPhone while doing the Downward-Facing Dog, but Yoga Studio looks like a very useful app for yoga beginners and veterans alike. It offers 30 yoga classes in HD video form, with the ability to stitch the videos together into custom routines, and browse photos of more than 280 poses.iPhoneThe Journals of Mama Mae &amp; LeeLeeIf music and children are two of the big themes on iOS this fortnight, then The Journals of Mama Mae &amp; LeeLee brings them together. It's a storytelling app with Alicia Keys providing the music. The stories focus on a girl called LeeLee and her grandma Mama Mae, with the promise of new story-packs and songs as in-app purchases in the months ahead.iPhone / iPadwowmumThis app is for parents rather than children: a guide to child-friendly spots around the UK sorted into three categories Eat, Play and Pamper. That means a location-based guide to restaurants, cafes, playgrounds, parks, pools, toy and clothes shops and other businesses for parents on the go.iPhoneAcoustikNot a book-app, but an audiobook-app. Acoustik is the work of Findaway World, as a way for people to listen to audiobooks in the Acoustik format. Free samples in a range of genres are provided within the app.iPhone / iPadMyCQsFew teenagers will want to be thinking about revising for their exams right now, but when the time comes, MyCQs could come in handy. It's based on the Multiple Choice Questions (MCQ) format that's being used in a number of schools, with the idea being that students create their own tests across a range of subjects, and also find those created by others. Better than flashcards, claim its developers.iPhone / iPadCSNThis app will only be of interest to fans of rock supergroup Crosby, Stills &amp; Nash, but it's noteworthy for its business model too. The app includes info on the band and its members, but also touts a premium subscription for £2.49 a month or £27.99 a year, promising exclusive content, community features and merchandise discounts.iPadHollywood PhotoboothThis may sound like a PhotoBooth-style novelty app, and it sort-of is, but with the involvement of the V&amp;A museum. It's based on the museum's Hollywood Costume exhibition, and offers up 16 famous film costumes to (virtually) try on, then share the results on social networks.iPhone / iPadStriiv Smart PedometerThere are an increasing number of fitness apps that include pedometer functions for iOS. Striiv takes a slightly different tack to most though, by including "activity-based games" to motivate your walking and running. That includes challenges ("burn the calories in a cupcake") as well as trophies and a virtual island to populate. It also works with calorie-counting service MyFitnessPal on the nutrition side.iPhoneInkly CardsWe've seen several startups launch apps to turn photos into physical postcards over the last few years. Inkly Cards is different: it's about making traditional greetings cards with an actual handwritten message inside. That means scribbling on real paper then taking a photo of it to upload with the card order. Independent artists and designers provide the card designs.iPhoneMy First Orchestra App HDAnother musical children's app, this comes from classical label Naxos, as a way of introducing kids aged four and upwards to the different instruments in an orchestra. Hosted by a troll named Tormod (the traditional monster kind, not the modern internet kind), it includes a full album's worth of music from composers like Mozart, Mendelssohn, Wagner and John Williams.iPadMan on the MoonBBC Worldwide's Sky at Night Magazine has launched a new iPad spin-off focusing on Apollo 11: "the crew, the spacecraft, the mission, the legend". Expect 3D spacecraft, panoramic Moon-views, videos and interactive diagrams as well as the core text'n'pics.iPadSpanish-English Dictionary 6th EditionThis reference app comes from the University of Chicago Press – its latest edition of its Spanish-English dictionary, with more than 34k entries, the option to create bookmarks, notes and word lists, and flashcard and quiz features if you're learning one of the languages.iPhoneGathered by Mollie MakesMore magazine appery here from Future Publishing: a weekly magazine about contemporary crafting that – for now – is only available on iPad. It promises projects, interviews and community features.iPadGQ Watch 2013Condé Nast is also experimenting with iPad apps based on some of its big brands. GQ Watch 2013 is a print mag turned into a digital download, focusing on all things timepiece-y.iPadFree calls - CommDeNA is best known for its mobile games: the Japanese company is one of the biggest publishers in the world thanks to its Mobage community. Now it's going after Skype's lunch with a new Voice-over-IP calling app, with added photo-sharing and instant messaging.iPhoneThat's our selection, but what new iOS apps have you been using this week? Make your recommendations in the comments section.
Apple has disappointed Wall Street for the second quarter in a row after results released on Thursday showed iPad sales had grown less than expected.The quarterly results beat the company's own forecasts with net profits up 24% to $8.2bn (£5bn) and revenues up 27% to $36bn – giving profits of $8.67 a share.But Wall Street analysts, used to years of Apple overshooting its estimates, had forecast profits at $8.75 per share, prompting the stock to drop below $600 in after hours trading from its official $609 close.Sales of iPhones grew faster than forecast, by 58%, to 26.9m – with the quarter including one week when its new iPhone 5 was on sale – but the 26% growth in the iPad line to 14m units was lower than anticipated.With signs of consumer demand reviving in the UK and US, analysts hope Apple's next quarter will benefit from a revamped iPad, its iPhone 5, which chief executive Tim Cook called "the largest product ramp-up in Apple's history" and its new iPad mini announced this week.Others fear the global slowdown hitting the eurozone and Asia will hold it back. Cook told analysts that China provided about 15% of revenues over the past four quarters.Apple is forecasting revenues for the current quarter of $52bn – against analyst forecasts of $55bn. A year ago its revenues were a record $46.3bn, suggesting that it expects revenue to grow 12.2%.Sales of iPads were noticeably below analyst forecasts of 15.3m – though some thought that the slowdown could have been due to the growing number of reports during the summer of the expected launch of the iPad mini. Cook said it is "clear that customers delay new tablet purchases due to rumours of new products".Analysts had expected sales of iPhones at 25m to 26m.Cook expressed optimism for the present quarter. "We're very proud to end a fantastic fiscal year with record September quarter results," he said. "We're entering this holiday season with the best iPhone, iPad, Mac and iPod products ever, and we remain very confident in our new product pipeline." The iPhone 5 had been widely expected ahead of its launch, and preorders began two weeks before the close of the quarter — and sales began the week before its end.Apple's iPad mini is expected to cash in on the apparent demand driven by Amazon and Google for smaller tablets with seven-inch screens. But finance chief Peter Oppenheimer said in a conference call that the "mini" has "substantially lower" profit margins than Apple's overall margins.Sales of iPods, the product launched 11 years ago this week and which drove Apple's second phase of growth after it nearly fell into bankruptcy in the 1990s, fell by 25% year-on-year to 4.9m. Sales of Macintosh laptop and desktop computers grew very slightly by 0.6% to 4.9m – against a backdrop of falling PC sales worldwide.Oppenheimer revealed that $83bn of Apple's $121bn in cash is held outside the US. Repatriating it would trigger a huge tax bill, which the company has so far avoided.Meanwhile, before the results announcement, stock in the music streaming service Pandora was hit by a Bloomberg report claiming that Apple will launch an ad-supported internet radio service in the new year.
Nokia crashed out of the top three smartphone makers for the first time ever, while Samsung's domination of the smartphone segment continued in the third quarter of 2012, as the Korean company shipped an estimated 56.3m devices worldwide, according to the research company IDC.Overall, the segment grew by 45% to 179.7m shipments - of which Apple and Samsung together made up 46.3%, continuing their domination of the space. Both grew substantially, with Samsung doubling its shipments and Apple upping its figures by 57% to 26.9m.But BlackBerry-maker RIM and the Finnish company Nokia both saw numbers and market share fall,said IDC. Though RIM was the third-biggest in the sector, it only shipped 7.7m devices, down from 11.8m a year ago, and Nokia fell out of the top three smartphone sellers for the first time ever, with just 6.3m smartphones.The broader market for all mobile phones grew by just 2.4% to 444.5m, meaning that smartphones were 40.4% of all phone shipments - a record share.Smartphone sales are growing rapidly as a percentage of overall mobile sales, hitting 40% in Q3. Source: IDCThough IDC did not give mobile OS share figures, almost all of Samsung's shipments are believed to have been using Google's Android OS. That, allied with other vendors' use of the OS, suggests Android had a share of more than 70%, and perhaps as high as 75%. Apple's OS share was 15%, up from 13.8% a year ago, while RIM's dropped to 4.3%. Nokia is the biggest Windows Phone vendor, though both Samsung and HTC are also vendors, but have not broken out those figures.The trend indicates the continuing squeeze by the two biggest companies on the rest of the smartphone market, especially on the midrange suppliers. China's ZTE pushed into fourth spot, its first time in the top five smartphone vendors, with 7.5m, an 83% growth on the year-ago quarter, while Taiwan's HTC was pushed down to fifth place with 7.3m, down from 12.7m a year ago.Samsung does not provide official figures for its smartphone shipments or revenues, leading analysts to estimate them. Apple announced its figures during itsquarterly results on Thursday.Another research company, ABI Research, put the shipment figure for the quarter at 55.5m in a total smartphone market of 155.5m. ABI Research also put ZTE ahead of RIM, at 8.3m over 7.4m, and HTC's shipments notably lower at 6m."Nokia's share losses have meant gains for competitors," said Kevin Restivo, IDC's senior research analyst. "The company's transition away from Symbian-powered smartphones to ones shipped with Windows Phone has left ample opportunity for rivals to steal share away from Nokia over the past 18 months." But Restivo called the smartphone market "relatively nascent" suggesting there was "room for multiple vendors and operating systems to flourish, including Nokia."Nokia retained its position in the top mobile handset makers with 82.9m shipments, but the sector was still dominated by Samsung with 105.4m shipments. Apple was the third-largest mobile handset maker with its 26.9m figure.Featurephone sales are shrinking while smartphone sales are growing rapidly. Source: IDC.
Microsoft has unveiled Windows 8, a radical reinvention of the world's best-selling computer operating system for the touchscreen age, in what many believe could be chief executive Steven Ballmer's last stand.A 32-year Microsoft veteran and the company's second largest shareholder after Bill Gates, Ballmer has bet his $235bn (£145bn) business on an operating system intended to give the titan of the already fading PC era a future on today's smartphones and tablets. At a launch event in New York on Thursday night, he promised a "re-imagined" software experience that "shatters perceptions of what a PC really is".Windows 8 will be a boost for PCs, Microsoft believes, rather than accelerating the change that is seeing them replaced by the growing number of mobile devices.The success of the iPhone saw Apple overtake Microsoft as the world's largest technology company two years ago, but Microsoft remains more valuable than Google, whose Android operating system dominates the smartphone market. It also has $67bn in cash reserves with which to continue its fight to remain relevant.The showcase device of the biggest Windows relaunch in 17 years – a high-end tablet computer called Surface which goes on sale today –has already received the thumbs down from influential reviewers. While Microsoft can afford to keep trying, critics believe Windows 8 represents Ballmer's last chance to remain at the helm."This is going to be his defining moment," said technology industry analyst Patrick Moorhead of Moor Insights &amp; Strategy. "Ballmer's legacy will be looked at as what he did or didn't do with Windows 8. If Windows 8 is not a success, a lot of people will be looking for Microsoft to make a change at the CEO level."The domestic desktop computer is languishing, with consumers delaying upgrades as they save their cash for smartphones and iPads. Microsoft software operates 95% of PCs, but worldwide sales of those machines fell 8% in the last quarter.Forrester analyst Frank Gillett has said that if you combined the numbers for PCs, smartphones and tablets, Microsoft accounted for nearly 70% of unit sales in 2008, but just 30% this year.He predicted: "Windows 8 is a make-or-break product launch for Microsoft. After a slow start in 2013, Windows 8 will take hold in 2014, keeping Microsoft relevant and the master of the PC market, but simply a contender in tablets, and a distant third in smartphones."With a brightly coloured interface composed of "tiles", each representing an app, Windows 8 has been praised as fast, fluid and fun to use. Updates, like a change in the weather, or a friend's Facebook comments, feed through to the tiles which represent them, creating a dynamic, eye-catching home screen.But critics say it is only a skin, with the old Windows software underneath. To operate certain features such as word processing, or even to change the date, users must leave the tiles interface and are returned to the world of Windows 7."You can't fault them for what they've done to try to prepare for this moment," said analyst Mark Moerdler at broker Sanford C Bernstein. "They've shown themselves to be organically innovative. But if they fail now it becomes even more difficult for them to gain mind share."Ballmer, now 56, has spent his entire working life at Microsoft, joining as one of its first 30 employees after meeting Gates at Harvard and finally succeeding him as chief executive in January 2000.Since then Microsoft's annual revenue has nearly quadrupled to $74bn and highlights of his tenure have included the successful Xbox 360 games console. But Ballmer has been slow to respond to technology shifts and has allowed Apple and Google to steal a march in mobile computing and search.Described byForbesmagazine as the "worst CEO of a publicly traded company today", Ballmer has done enough with Windows 8 to keep the jury at bay – but the clock is ticking.
It's okay everyone, it's Friday!
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft Surface RT Review: this Is technological heartbreak &gt;&gt; GizmodoShould you buy it?No. The Surface, with an obligatory Touch Cover, is $600. That's a lot of money. Especially given that it's no laptop replacement, no matter how it looks or what Microsoft says. It's a tablet-plus, priced right alongside the iPad and in most ways inferior.A long and considered review, with plenty that it likes about the Surface. But somewhat more it doesn't.Microsoft is taking the wrong approach to tablets &gt;&gt; CITEworldRon Miller:Tablet manufacturers have been trying to give us keyboards for our tablets for a while now, and they haven't stuck. I saw a device from Asus at CeBIT in March, 2011 that combined a tablet with a little slide out keyboard. Sound familiar?  Why didn't they fly off the shelves? You could argue it's because the wrong company produced them, or because the early version of Android it was based on did not work well for tablets, but I think it's more fundamental than that. The touch-screen tablet has changed the way we interact with devices. People want software that takes advantage of that - and doesn't force us to use it like a laptop.On the "nobody knows anything" hypothesis, this means the Surface is a runaway hit.Surmounting the Insurmountable: Wikipedia Is nearing completion, in a sense &gt;&gt; The AtlanticInteresting question from Rebecca Rosen:what if the decline in engagement has little to do with culture or the design of the site? What if, instead, it's that there's just less for new Wikipedians to do?Apple's online radio service to challenge Pandora in 2013 &gt;&gt; BloombergApple Inc. (AAPL) and major music labels have intensified negotiations to start an advertising-supported internet radio service by early next year, according to people with knowledge of the talks.Talks are centered in part around how to share ad revenue and a deal could be reached by mid-November, with Apple starting a service within the first three months of 2013, said the people, who asked not to be named because discussions are still in progress. Shares of Internet-radio leader Pandora Media plunged.Samsung is interested in this space too.Preliminary ITC ruling finds Samsung in infringement of four Apple patents &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsPrevious ITC decisions either cleared Android devices of violation of the asserted patents (Apple's three-patent complaint against Motorola) or identified a violation with respect to only one or two patents at a time. But on Wednesday, Administrative Law Judge Thomas B. Pender issued apreliminary rulingin Apple's favor against Samsung over four patents: one design patent, one hardware patent, and two multitouch software patents...The total number of valid Apple and Microsoft patents that Android-based devices have been held by courts around the world and the ITC to infringe has now increased to 20.The ITC ruling is preliminary and can be appealed, and/or worked around. Still means hassle for Samsung. The total of patents against Android doesn't seem to have been fixed by buying Motorola at all.Google Drive opens backdoor to Google accounts &gt;&gt; The H SecurityIn reference to the desktop clients on Windows and Mac:The sync tool includes a "Visit Google Drive on the web" link which opens Drive's web interface in the default browser and automatically logs the user in. Somewhat problematic is the fact that this session can then be used to switch to other Google services such as GMail and Google Calendar.Even if the user explicitly logs out of the Google sites by clicking the "Sign out" link, the Drive client will open a new session without requiring a password. The desktop clients request login credentials only once, when they are first installed and launched.This routes around even Google's two-factor authentication. But you already have a timeout lock on your screen, right?Microsoft Surface Review &gt;&gt; AnandtechAfter using Microsoft's Surface for the past week I can say that I honestly get it. This isn't an iPad competitor, nor is it an Android tablet competitor. It truly is something different. A unique perspective, not necessarily the right one, but a different one that will definitely resonate well with some (not all) users. After the past week I also understand Panos Panay's desire for secrecy. From a distance, without using one, Surface is easy to judge. It's a Windows tablet that doesn't run most Windows applications, that doesn't have most of the same new mobile apps that iOS and Android have, and it's not priced aggressively enough to make those facts disappear. After living with Surface however, I understand the appeal. It's worth a discussion, perhaps even consideration as it does some things better than any tablet on the market, and it does others worse.Brew that coffee: you've got 12 pages to go through.Travis Shrugged: The creepy, dangerous ideology behind Silicon Valley's Cult of Disruption &gt;&gt; PandoDailyPaul Carr:Laws don't exist merely to frustrate the business ambitions of coastal hipsters: They also exist to protect the more vulnerable members of society. Back home in London (where such statistics are available), 11 women a month are attacked in unlicensed cabs, and unlicensed drivers are responsible for a horrifying 80 percent of all stranger rapes. If Uber doesn't have to follow licensing laws, then neither does any Tom, Dick, or Harry who chooses to paint the word "TAXI" on the side of his car, and start offering rides via the Internet. A disruptive CEO will shrug (and there's a foreshadowing word) and insist that it's not his fault that such criminals exist. "Just because there are people who want to rape, murder, or rob you shouldn't prevent me from making another million dollars," he'll argue.Remarkably, a large part of the Internet community -- by which Imeanthat tiny number of social media fanatics who spend their days on Twitter, looking for the next cause to rally behind or the next bad guy to boycott -- will agree with him.(Thanks @jseths on Twitter for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
When Stanford Ovshinsky, who has died aged 89, set up in a laboratory in Detroit at the start of 1960 with his second wife, Iris, he saw an opportunity to change the world. For the 50 years that followed, he spent much of his time battling a sceptical world that did not want to change.A machine-tool builder by trade – he developed an advanced lathe that streamlined munitions production for the Korean war effort – Ovshinsky was fascinated by the way the neurons in the brain behave and felt those mechanisms pointed the way to much more advanced forms of automation.In the late 1950s, together with his younger brother Herbert, Ovshinsky built an electromechanical model of a neural cell and, in doing so, discovered an effect that would see him shift emphasis from machinery to chemistry. At a time when almost all the research in advanced electronics was dedicated to transistors made from well-ordered crystalline materials such as germanium and silicon, the Ovshinskys felt that disordered, amorphous materials held far more promise. Stan named the technology "ovonics" to mark it as being different from regular electronics.Glassy materials, known as chalcogenides, made from mixtures of elements that surround silicon and germanium in the periodic table, could process information and convert light to electricity, offering an alternative to coal and oil. Ovshinsky, who had asthma, disliked coal and the pollution that it fuelled.Energy and information were "thermodynamically the opposite sides of the same coin", he wrote in 1981. Seeing the connection, the Ovshinskys decided to work on both at the couple's Detroit-based Energy Conversion Laboratories. The husband-and-wife team published and patented their work on chalcogenides that could be transformed from insulators into conductors by heat.Although Sir Nevill Mott would win a Nobel prize for work on disordered materials in 1977, few researchers saw the value in Ovshinsky's work when it first appeared. His 1968 paper on a way to store computer data in chalcogenides drew harsh criticism immediately after publication. But within a decade, the paper had been cited hundreds of times by other researchers.Some saw potential immediately. Robert Noyce and Gordon Moore, who co-founded Intel in 1968, thought their new company could profit from chalcogenide computer memories because the devices could store data for long periods without needing external power, unlike Intel's first commercial memory product. But Intel killed the project because of the amount of power it took to change the memory's contents.Undeterred, Ovshinsky pursued the technology and licensed it to other chipmakers. But only in this decade have the first commercial phase-change memories appeared on the market. Even after 40 years of development, the long-term value of the technology for computer memory remains uncertain, although Japanese engineers found a different way to use the materials to create rewritable CDs and DVDs in the 1990s.Through a network of subsidiaries of his original company, Ovshinsky tried to find ways to commercialise disordered materials for power generation and storage. His greatest success technologically was for a way of making nickel-metal hydride (NiMH) batteries that could be used in cars after discovering that the materials favoured by existing battery makers lacked the disorder needed to store large quantities of electricity. But he found lack of scientific acceptance was not the only obstacle. General Motors (GM) licensed his technology but it wound up at the oil company Chevron."You think that if you invent something, people will applaud you," Ovshinsky said in an interview for the Henry Ford museum in 2009. "The various special interests like the oil companies weren't very happy about it. They helped GM suppress the first electric cars."However, he had greater success in Japan, where Toyota launched the first mass-produced hybrid range in 1997. "All the Priuses used our batteries from day one," he said.Born in Akron, Ohio, to a Jewish couple who fled eastern Europe at the start of the 20th century, Ovshinsky pursued an unconventional path, steering clear of the college education chosen by almost all of the people with whom he collaborated. He disliked school but read avidly, finally completing studies at a trade school, and saw Ohio's public libraries as being his educator.Believing that science and technology are branches of the arts, Ovshinsky acquired a deep fondness for the machines on which he worked in Ohio's factories. In 2009, when giving a tour of one of his factories, used to make rolls of flexible solar panels, he said: "I get chills when I come here. It's like a cathedral."After the breakup of his first marriage, to Norma Rifkin, with whom he had three sons, Ovshinsky married Iris Dibner, a biologist with whom he worked closely until her death in 2006. He is survived by his sons and six grandchildren, his brother and his third wife, Rosa Young, with whom he worked on electric and hybrid vehicle technologies from the late 1990s.• Stanford Robert Ovshinsky, inventor and technologist, born 24 November 1922; died 17 October 2012
My daughter uses Blogger to keep a wonderful record of her toddler's "Life and Times".  This is all the more precious to those with whom she shares it as she lives abroad. I worry about future-proofing this material and wonder if you have any advice on capturing the blog and perhaps saving it in more tangible formats.David MarshallThis is a great use of a blog, and there are lots of different ways you could preserve it. For example, you could save each page as file and print the resulting files in colour. This would make the blog accessible offline and sharable in much the same way as snapshots, with the files you have saved providing a separate backup. Every browser should have a "File Save" routine somewhere, or a "Save page as…" command like Google Chrome.Both Microsoft's Internet Explorer and Opera provide a handy way to do this: they let you save pages in a standards-basedMHTMLformat. In IE, use the Save option called "Web archive, single file (*.mht)". This saves a page as a single file rather than saving the page's HTML as one file and all the other elements — images, scripts etc — in a separate folder. (HTML, HyperText Markup Language, is the language used to create most web pages. The M comes from MIME, or Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions. MHTML is shortened to .mht to identify these files.)There's also a Firefox extension calledUnMHT, which adds MHT file support to Firefox. Another extension,Mozilla Archive Format, will save pages in either MHT or MAFF (Mozilla Archive Format File). You can get similar plug-ins for most popular browsers.Another quick way to make a tangible record is to select and copy a hefty chunk of the blog and paste into a Microsoft Word document (docx). This will copy panels and pictures as well as text. The results tend to be a bit mixed, but sometimes it works very well. You can also try capturing each page as an image, if you have an image capture program that will snapshot whole web pages, not just the parts currently on screen.Of course, if it's a large blog, saving or copying one page at a time soon becomes tedious. Also, saving individual pages loses the structure of the blog. Programs known as "site rippers" solve both problems by copying (ripping) whole sites and downloading them to a folder on your PC's hard drive.Site rippers were in vogue in the early days of the web, when people were paying by the minute to dial up and read web pages online. It was relatively quick and easy to rip a small website so that you could read it offline. Thanks to ubiquitous broadband, there's not much call for that nowadays. Also, today's bigger and more complicated websites are harder to rip than simple HTML sites.One survivor isHTTrack Website Copier, an open source site ripper that works on Microsoft Windows and Linux. There's aYouTube videothat shows how to use it. Spadix Software'sBackStreet Browser 3.2for Windows looks easier to use. There's also the WinWSD WebSite Downloader, which you can download fromCNetand other sites, but the author's home page no longer works.Things are different if you own aBloggerblog, or at least have a password to access the dashboard. In this case, you can go to Settings (the spanner icon), click on Other, and then choose "Export blog". This will save a back-up copy of the whole blog to your hard drive in XML (Extensible Markup Language) format.It's important to do this in case you inadvertently run into a dreaded "policy violation" and Google deletes your blog. Note that to get a proper backup, you have to download a backup copy of your blog's Template as well.A Blogger backup isn't very useful, but if you double-click the .xml file, it will load into a browser, such as IE. If you scroll down past the confusing headers, you should find the readable text of each post, but it's no substitute for the original blog. And while you could import your .xml file into Blogger or theWordPressblogging system, you could still only read it online.At this point, I'm stuck for a suggestion. One idea, which I haven't tried, would be to install a copy of WordPress on your PC and import the Blogger backup into that. It's quite a lot of work and might not be worth the effort. Perhaps a reader can suggest a better idea for offline reading.Finally, there are online services that will back up a blog, or convert it into an ebook or even a printed book. Again, there may be limits on what you can do unless you have access to the Blogger dashboard.TheBlogBackuprwebsite will back up a blog on a daily basis, using its RSS feed.ZinePalwill convert a blog into a PDF file and into an ebook in the Amazon Kindle, Mobipocket and ePub formats. However, it will only convert five blog posts unless you sign up for the Pro version, which will convert 50. One ebook costs $5.BookSmithwill convert up to 100 posts from Blogger or WordPress into an ebook, and offer you the chance to buy a printed copy. However, you have to give it your logon and password.BlogBookerwill convert a Blogger, WordPress or LiveJournal blog into a PDF ebook. This looks a decent bet because you can upload your Blogger backup (.xml) file. However, the site is "donationware" and, quite reasonably, requests a donation if you want to include images.I tried BlogBooker with an old blog and the result is quite book-like with an index at the front, different chapters for different years, left/right page spacing, headers/footers and so on. It also included comments. With an automated spacing and layout system, there are bound to be errors that a human editor would correct, but still, if you like the result, you can get the PDF printed byLulu. Either way, it's better than nothing.I also triedPDF my URL, because it only involves pasting in the blog's web address. Almost instantly, the site created a paginated PDF copy that looked like my original Blogger site, with colour panels etc. However, it only picked up the last 15 of 67 posts, and no comments. If you want to modify the settings, you have to sign up for a paid subscription.If there are better services out there, please tell us about them in the comments….
A certain online encyclopedia describesAssassin's Creed III(PS3/Xbox360/WiiU/PC) as a "historical action-adventure open world stealth video game". It is both a long-winded description and an incomplete one. It is, arguably, missing the words "free-running", "management" and "martial arts". And it is definitely, undeniably, missing the vital key word "epic". Because – and I say this having only scratched the surface – this game is so epic it looks set to make Ben Hur look like a child's cartoon flipbook.The third instalment of the Assassin's Creed story takes place over a sizable chunk of the 18th century, in the stirrings, midst and aftermath of the American revolution. As in previous editions, this is framed with science-fiction set in the present day: the Animus, a machine capable of reading memories out of our genes, plunges modern hero Desmond Miles back into the lives of his ancestors: the secretive order of Assassins, engaged in a millennial battle with the dastardly and deadly Templars.This time, though, the stakes are higher than ever. The world of the present is just a month or so away from being engulfed in an apocalyptic cataclysm and Desmond's genetic memories are humanity's only hope of working out how to stop this happening. Specifically, it's the life of his ancestor Connor Kenway, a half-British, half-Native American assassin, that holds the key to staving off the end of days.And what a life it is, full of intrigue, betrayal, warfare at land and on the high seas and, above all, freedom. Both in the sense of the great struggle against America's wicked British oppressors and in the sense of: "Wow, you can do absolutely bloody anything." Because alongside the grand central narrative stretching across continents and centuries are a labyrinth of side-quests, meaty distractions and hidden gems.Take, for example, your Homestead, an old colonial estate that forms the base of Kenway's operations and, if you're not the home improvement type, little else. Take an interest in its affairs and you'll soon discover there's a wealth of tasks to be getting on with. Recruiting settlers, for one. You'll want to seek out, among others, carpenters, a butcher and an innkeeper, to keep buildings up, mouths fed and spirits high. You can even organise them into an efficient trading machine, crafting and shipping goods all over the eastern seaboard.Then, as you grow frustrated with the taxes imposed on your new empire, you'll want to head out into the wilderness and conquer the Templar forts along your trade routes. And when the land is yours – or before – you may choose to hunt on it, tracking, baiting, trapping and skinning wolves, bears, panthers and other wildlife and taking the pelts and innards back to be traded or crafted into useful gear.Tire of the land, and you can head out on to the ocean in your trusty ship, waging naval war against the Templars, living the life of a salty privateer or following dusty maps in search of the legendary Captain Kidd's treasure. If you find your beloved vessel's not up to the journey, a short visit to the Harbourmaster will set him to work upgrading it. Fancy a quiet break and you can wander about the harbour, watching the crew at work, rigging sails and bickering below decks, or climb the crow's nest for a spectacular view of the open sea or the sprawling, freely explorable cities of Boston and New York.Or you can do none of that. Ignore the siren call of the sea, the hunt, the homestead and the market, and there's still the noble business of assassination to be getting on with, and it's here, in the campaign's core missions, that the developers have really flexed their cinematic muscles.In one short session with the game, I've chased a target on horseback through a vast chaotic battle, performed a quiet stabbing amid the gentry of a crowded theatre, eavesdropped from a rooftop on a young George Washington and ambushed a convoy of two dozen musketeers. All of which looked incredible, largely thanks to an elegantly simple control setup and a combat engine that turns every little scuffle into a fluid John Woo masterpiece.If the rest of it is as gorgeous, rich, intelligent and exhilarating as these first few hours, we may be looking at something more than a mere contender for the game of the year. It just might be the defining epic of a generation of consoles.
2.43pmETFinal summaryMicrosoft has unveiled what it called a &quot;revolutionary&quot; overhaul of its Windows computer software. Windows 8 is a radical makeover of previous versions of the software and is designed for a new generation of touchscreen tablet computers and laptops.Steve Ballmer, the Microsoft chief executive, says Windows 8 PCs will be the best PCs ever, as his company faces down competition in tablets and smartphones from Apple and Google.He says Windows 8 &quot;shatters perceptions of what a PC really is&quot; and is a &quot;bold and innovative&quot; break from past Windows versions.Microsoft&apos;s tablet computer, Surface, will go on sale tonight, priced at $499 for the 32GB version.No UK prices were given, but the Surface will be available to buy online from this evening.Microsoft announces Xbox music and videos for Windows 8 and Surface.The music and video streaming service will compete with Spotify with its library of 30m songs.2.43pmETMore picturesThe Microsoft tablet computer, Surface, at a demonstration in New York.  Photograph: Lucas JacksonThe Microsoft Windows 8 operating system is on display at a press conference in New York,  Photograph: Mario Tama/Getty ImagesThe touchscreen Windows 8 operating system is unveiled at a press event in New York.  Photograph: Mario Tama/Getty Images2.43pmETSteven Sinofsky, the head of Windows, is back on stage. He says Surface is both the best tablet and best laptop he has ever used.He announces thatthe Surface will go on sale tonight priced at $499 for the 32GB version.2.43pmETPanay says theSurface&quot;does everything your laptop can do&quot;.There are mixed views about this. Early reviews have complained that the Surface is an awkward hybrid of a consumption device, for reading and viewing, and a creation device, for creating spreadsheets and presentations. Lean back versus lean forward, as media types say.He shows some examples of multitasking, including recording a video while typing in a OneNote document.Michael Gartenberg, the Gartner analyst, tweets:One thing that's clear to me is#surfaceis a new category of device and one that will make sense for many consumers.&mdash; Michael Gartenberg (@Gartenberg)October 25, 20122.43pmETPeople walk past a display at a press conference unveiling the Microsoft Windows 8 operating system in New York.  Photograph: Mario Tama/Getty Images2.43pmETThe Surface announcement/demonstration has taken a turn for the bizarre.Panay justdropped a Surface repeatedly on the floorin an attempt to prove it is indestructible. True enough, it isn&apos;t broken. Then he says:You can drop it in 72 different orientations. And we do. We drop &apos;em so we know how good they are.2.43pmETThe Time technology writerHarry McCrackenhas picked up on Panay&apos;s opening gambit, where he spent an inordinate amount of time talking about the Surface&apos;s kickstand, which props it up.Already, the Surface kickstand is the most highly-publicized kickstand in the history of kickstands.&mdash; Harry McCracken (@harrymccracken)October 25, 20122.43pmETThisSurfaceannouncement is more a demonstration of the tablet&apos;s best features so far.Panay says the Surface is about extending all of Microsoft, not just Windows, as he shows off theXbox music and videos appand how it can beam content via the tablet to your Xbox.&quot;The point is Surface is an amazing tablet. All the apps we made, we made purposefully, so you can do all the things you want with it,&quot; he says.2.43pmETPanos Panay, Microsoft&apos;s head of Surface, has taken over from Sinofsky.He describes Microsoft Surface as &quot;a stage&quot; for Windows 8. He says the 10.6in diagonal screen is &quot;the perfect expression of Windows&quot; and is ripe for multitasking.&quot;That 10.6in is unique because it&apos;s not one of the standard sizes you get off any manufacturing line. This panel was designed from the ground up in Redmond.&quot;2.43pmETSteven Sinofsky, Microsoft&apos;s head of Windows, is on stage introducing us to &quot;the feeling of Surface&quot;.And the reviews get a mention! &quot;It&apos;s great to see some of the first reviews, there&apos;s so much passion for hardware,&quot; he says. That&apos;s one way of putting it.2.43pmETWe&apos;re back withMicrosoftfor an announcement on their Surface tablet computer, which goes on sale tomorrow.My colleagueJuliette Garsidewrote yesterday howthe Surface had been given a thumbs downin many of the early reviews published this week. That&apos;s not a great backdrop for Microsoft to go into this press launch, but they are a thick-skinned bunch in Redmond.2.43pmETWhile we wait for theSurface announcement(the press room rumour mill says it will be about price points and something about a Surface for enterprises), I&apos;ve just spoken toFrank Gillett, a senior analyst at Forrester.Here&apos;s his take on the Microsoft keynote:I expected to hear something new today, either about the number of apps or types of games. We didn&apos;t hear any of that, all they said was that it had doubled. I think they should have been telling us new things. If they&apos;re trying to tell us how good the devices and the apps are then put them [developers and partners] on stage. Apple does it and Microsoft used to do it.The question now is how do they adjust and go forward because there clearly is going to be roadblocks.2.43pmETThis was an important moment forMicrosoft, as the analysts and market-watchers had predicted.Microsoft hopesWindows 8will usher in a new generation of touchscreen PCs of all shapes and sizes, including tablet computers that will compete directly with Apple&apos;s iPad.Steve Ballmerstated boldly that Microsoft believes in the future of the PC with this launch even as its rivals ramp up the &quot;post-PC world&quot; rhetoric.There was no doubt that this was the launch that needed to happen for Microsoft, which has seen its share of personal devices shrink from a full 95% of the PC-only market to just a third of all personal devices, including tablet computers and smartphones.The keynote lacked any big new numbers or surprising announcements because that is not what Microsoft was trying to achieve: its understated but ambitious message was that Windows 8 marks a new dawn for PCs.The demonstrations proved that Windows 8 is a complete and radical overhaul of past versions of the software. It needed to be. Windows 7 and its predecessors were not made for touchscreens.Steven Sinofsky, Microsoft&apos;s head of Windows, said Friday 26 October 2012 would be the first day of &quot;the world of Windows 8&quot; – the challenge now is to convince consumers that the Windows of old is truly a thing of the past.2.43pmETWe&apos;re keeping the liveblog open for the meantime as we expect an announcement onMicrosoft&apos;s Surfacetablet computer in an hour.It only got a fleeting mention in the keynote and journalists were scratching their heads about why it didn&apos;t feature more heavily. The Surface is due to go on sale tomorrow and the first reviews published in the US this week were, ahem, a bit lukewarm.2.43pmETMicrosoft CEO Steve Ballmer speaks at  the launch event of Windows 8 in New York.  Photograph: Lucas Jackson/Reuters2.43pmETAndBallmerwraps up with a final flourish: &quot;Welcome to the world of Windows 8&quot;.We will have analysis and reaction shortly on what was a pretty sleek launch, if slightly lacking in many headline announcements.I&apos;m with the technology journalistTim Andersonwho asks whether Windows 8 is the operating system of primary colours. &quot;Striking how Windows 8 goes for bright and brash versus the more muted tones we see from Apple, for example,&quot; he says.2.43pmETMichael Angiulo, corporate vice president of Windows planning, hardware & PC ecosystem at Microsoft, shows its Surface tablet.  Photograph: Lucas Jackson/Reuters2.43pmETBallmer says analysts have predicted400m new PC sales for next year, most of which will run Windows 8.We&apos;ve grown very fond of this term, &apos;Windows reimagined&apos;. It&apos;s a bold and innovative set of work we&apos;ve done with Windows 8. Windows 8 PCs really are the best PCs ever.2.43pmETBallmer announcesXbox music, video and games,the streaming service that will come with Windows 8. It comes with 30 million songs that can be streamed online. (Does it have licences for Europe? That would be interesting, given how Google and Amazon have both failed in this respect.)2.43pmETBallmerpitches Windows 8 PCs as beng &quot;alive with activity&quot;, including social messages, photos, videos, music, games, and apps.One thing is clear: Microsoft does not believe that the decline of the PC is terminal. It hopes that Windows 8 and touchscreens will be a shot in the arm to PCs. Contrast that with Apple&apos;s repeated mantra, the &quot;post-PC world&quot;.2.43pmETDevices running Windows 8 operating system are shown at the launch of Windows 8 operating system in New York.  Photograph: Lucas Jackson/Reuters2.43pmETThe first mention ofMicrosoft Surfacegets a ripple of applause. It gets a plug alongside the Asus Vivo Tab before Anguilo and Larson-Green make way forSteve Ballmer, the Microsoft chief executive.&quot;It really is an exciting, exciting day,&quot; he booms inthatvoice. &quot;Yeah, I&apos;m excited.&quot;He says Windows 8 &quot;shatters perceptions of what a PC really is&quot; and is a &quot;truly reimagined&quot; software experience.2.43pmETAnguilo and Larson-Green (or Mike and Julie) are showing off the range of computers fromDell, Lenovo, Asus and Samsungthat will run Windows 8. They come in all shapes and sizes, including convertible PCs that double as both a tablet computer and an ultrabook.The software does look silky smooth on the smaller devices being demonstrated, but Windows 8 does use a lot of screen real estate. There is no space spared.The pair move onto the Windows Store for apps.&quot;The Windows Store is so important we&apos;ve been working with developers for over a year,&quot; Anguilo says. He adds that the number of apps in the store has doubled in recent weeks.2.43pmETSteven Sinofsky,president of the Windows and Windows Live division at Microsoft, speaks at  the launch event of Windows 8.  Photograph: Lucas Jackson/Reuters2.43pmETOK, Windows 8 is all these wonderful things, but what is it like for those who are used toearlier versions of Windows? Foolproof (&quot;Europe’s largest experience design specialist&quot;)did some user testing– a small sample, only 16 people, but it was in-depth – and here are some of their conclusions:It’s certainly a radical departure from the existing interface and has the potential to create an easier and more engaging experience. But it comes with a huge learning overhead, which we think is likely to slow down adoption of the new system. It may even present an opportunity for competitors to steal market share.While our participants found the Modern UI fresh and attractive, the radical changes it introduces caused all of them significant problems. At the end of their session, none of our participants felt confident using the new interface.One participant told us: “I feel like a baby again. I can’t do anything, not even my very simple list of things like launch Internet Explorer, type in the address, open something in a tab and go to that tab and read it.”Charles Arthur2.43pmETAnguiloprompts Apple-esque whoops and hollers from some in the audience as he says Windows 8 made his ultrabook computer run33% fasterthan Windows 7. They must be incredibly happy for him.He says there will be a &quot;huge wave&quot; of new PCs and smartphones running a version of Windows 8 launching next month, just in time for Christmas.2.43pmETLive video streamBy the way, if you want to watch the live video stream of the event,it&apos;s right here.2.43pmETSteven Sinofsky, president of the Windows and Windows Live division at Microsoft, speaks at the launch of Windows 8 in New York.  Photograph: Lucas Jackson/Reuters2.43pmETSinofsky races through an introduction ofWindows RT, the Windows software for PCs running ARM chips. He says it will work with 420m computers.Now we&apos;re being given a sneak peak of the rather dapper Windows 8 TV ads before Microsoft execsMike AnguiloandJulie Larson-Greentake the stage for some demos.Larson-Green says &quot;everything is right where you need it, under your thumbs, with Windows 8 as she prods at a tablet computer running the new software.2.43pmETNow ontothe Windows Store, Microsoft&apos;s answer to Apple&apos;s dominant App Store.Every Windows 8 PC will run Windows Store apps, and developers are adding hundreds of apps every day, according to Sinofsky.Earlier in the press room I spoke to the technology journalist Tim Anderson, who said he had noticed about 1,500 new apps had been added to the store overnight.2.43pmETSinofsky says that more than 1,000 new PCs have been certified for Windows 8, with some costingunder $300– more affordable than several tablet computers, including (although he doesn&apos;t say it) a top-end Apple iPad.&quot;These are the best PCs ever made,&quot; he adds. Microsoft has worked closely with all of the big PC makers to get this right. Many of the new PCs running Windows 8 will havetouchscreen ability, for users that want to swipe and jab at their screen instead of using a mouse or trackpad.2.43pmETMeanwhile, just to make Microsoft feel a little uncomfortable as the event continues here, research firm Gartner is saying thatGoogle&apos;s Androidwill be on more &quot;computing devices&quot; (ie smartphones and tablets) than Windows &quot;without four years&quot;. Ittold Reuters(the announcement isn&apos;t on theGartner press siteyet) that by then there will be 2.3bn &quot;computers, tablets and smartphones using Android software, compared with 2.28bn Windows devices.&quot; At current rates Gartner reckons by the end of 2012 there will be 1.5bn Windows devices, and 608m on Android.2.43pmETWindows 8 has better battery life, faster boot time, a smaller memory footprint and has undergone 1.2bn hours of pre-release testing, according toSinofsky.Several analysts noted earlier in the week at the very un-Microsoft level of attention to detail that appears to have gone into Windows 8. This really is Microsoft&apos;s big bet.2.43pmETMicrosoft CEO Steve Ballmer shows a Surface tablet before the launch of Windows 8 operating system in New York.  Photograph: Lucas Jackson/Reuters2.43pmETSinofsky saysWindows 8is &quot;computing for the next billion people&quot;. He marks the shift from Windows 95 – &quot;we lived in caves&quot; – to the age of touchscreens, smartphones, and social networking.&quot;Windows 8 is simply the best release of Windows ever,&quot; he says. You would hope so.2.43pmETWe&apos;re under way.Steven Sinofsky,Microsoft&apos;s head of Windows, takes the stage and announces that Windows 7 has been installed 670m times. He describes Windows 8 as a &quot;major milestone in the evolution and revolution of computing&quot;.2.43pmETHurrah! Journalists have just been let into the main event hall here at Pier 65 in New York.We&apos;re on the banks of the Hudson river. There is some speculation that Steve Ballmer will make his grand entrance on a speedboat. Whatever he does, he needs to outdoSergey Brin&apos;s Google Goggles extravaganzainvolving skydivers and abseiling.2.43pmETPeople arrive at the launch event for Microsoft Windows 8 operating system in New York, October 25, 2012.2.43pmETTech writers have had access to Windows 8 for a while and thereviews are out today. My colleagueCharles Arthur in the Guardianis broadly positive but writes of the confusion between the overlay of Windows 8 – the much talked-about touchscreen tiles – with what amounts to a Windows 7+1 underneath.If, for example you want (for some reason) to change the date on your computer, you won&apos;t be able to do it in the big Modern UI tiles. You&apos;ll have to take the fireman&apos;s pole down to Windows 7. And there it&apos;s all suddenly … the same again. It&apos;s like Bobby stepping out of the shower in Dallas. Or, to put it another way, it&apos;s like you&apos;re in HG Wells&apos;s Time Machine, and have come away from the happy Eloi above, in their big-tiled world, and discovered the Morlocks labouring away beneath.In the New York Times, David Pogue says it may be the &quot;biggest week in Microsoft&apos;s 37-year history&quot;. He is also positive about Windows 8, but thinks the result of crunching it together with an updated Windows 7 is &quot;a mess&quot; and wishes the two systems had been kept separate.You can easily imagine how Microsoft got here. “PC sales have slowed,” some executive must have said. “This is a new age of touch screens! We need a fresh approach, a new Windows. Something bold, fluid and finger-friendly.”“Well, hold on,” someone must have countered. “We can’t forget the 600 million regular mouse-driven PCs. We also need to update Windows 7 for them!”And then things went terribly wrong.“Hey, I know!” somebody piped in. “Let’s combine those two Windows versions into one. One OS for all machines. Everybody’s happy!”Whoops.2.43pmETHello and welcome to the Windows 8 launch live blog.I am in New York City where Microsoft will shortly unveil what is being described as the most radical overhaul of its Windows computer software in decades.The ageing Pier 57 building on the banks of the Hudson river in Manhattan has been given a makeover for this launch, and Microsoft executives have been buzzing around the lavish W hotel in Union Square for days.All of this leads up to a pretty significant moment for Microsoft. The company hopes Windows 8 will help it regain ground lost to Apple and Google in the age of the smartphone and tablet computer. The software is also likely to be key in slowing or even reversing the decline of the PC.Unlike previous versions of Windows, this one is designed for PCs, notebooks, tablet computers and smartphones. It is built for a new generation of touchscreen devices, rather than the traditional PC and mouse.Follow us from 11am EST/4pm BST for all the action.People try out Microsoft Corp's Windows 8 operating system at an event for its debut at the Akihabara electronics store district in Tokyo  Photograph: Toru Hanai/ReutersAlong with a number of other European and UK journalists, Josh Halliday&apos;s New York travel and accommodation was paid by Microsoft.
It's called Windows 8, but it might be simpler to think of it as Windows 7 + 1. Underneath everything that you'll see at first is the same Windows that anyone who has been using Windows 7 since October 2009 is used to seeing.But it's that +1 that you'll see first – and that's where, for many people, the surprise may start. Microsoft has completely rethought the initial experience – the process by which we start interacting with a computer when its screen comes on – and replaced the "desktop" with a series of large tiles which you swipe (with a finger, if you're using a tablet or touchscreen laptop, or mouse) from side to side. "Modern UI", as it's called, involves big tiles without the fussy "Close" or "Minimise" or "Maximise" buttons.I've been using the final version of Windows 8 for a couple of months on a Samsung touchscreen tablet. Some people may find it disconcerting – the more ingrained you are in how Windows 7 does things, the harder the adjustment may be. But after a while, the new version feels relaxing; natural, even.The "Start screen", as Microsoft calls it, consists only of those big tiles, and completely replaces the desktop you first see on Windows – although, let's be clear, that old Windows desktop is still there. It's just hidden one layer down, and if you want to jump down into it there's a perfectly good fireman's pole in the form of a tile called "Desktop". Click or touch that, and you're in Windows 7.The Start screen houses whatever you want it to on those tiles – which can be "live", so that the weather tile shows the forecast, the Mail tile shows the mounting unread toll, your Calendar tells of the next meeting … it's a helpful, innovative experience. (Not coincidentally, the Xbox already does, and the smartphone version of Windows, called Windows Phone, does the same; Nokia, HTC and Microsoft all hope that Windows 8 will give that side of the business a big boost too.) You can "pin" Windows 7 apps to the Start screen, and you can also download free or paid app from the built-in Windows Store – which has only about 10,000 apps so far, but it's growing fast.Using "Modern UI" apps does take some getting used to. It's a minimalist experience which does away with all the clunky windows and scroll bars of the "old" Windows. The entire screen is filled with whatever you're doing, without any of those pesky Close or Minimise buttons. Whether it's Internet Explorer, or the "social" app (which ties together your social networks in one place), or the Mail app, the whole thing takes up all of the screen. There is a neat system that lets you view two windows at once – a second one can be dragged in from the right, and then takes up roughly one-fifth of the screen; you can't do that with an iPad. However, two is all you get; you can't pull in another window and have three apps in view.The control buttons are hidden, and the navigation to get you around the rest of the system – back to the "Start screen" – is squirrelled away off the right-hand side of the screen. Move the mouse there, or swipe in from the edge, and the "Charms" (as they're charmingly called) appear. Those take you back to the Start screen, or to elements such as the Settings panel (though not all of the old Control Panel).But it's around this point that the "+1" nature of this all gets slightly uncomfortable. If, for example you want (for some reason) to change the date on your computer, you won't be able to do it in the big Modern UI tiles. You'll have to take the fireman's pole down to Windows 7. And there it's all suddenly … the same again. It's like Bobby stepping out of the shower in Dallas. Or, to put it another way, it's like you're in HG Wells's Time Machine, and have come away from the happy Eloi above, in their big-tiled world, and discovered the Morlocks labouring away beneath. All those Close, Minimise, Maximise buttons. Title bars on windows. Resizing. All that stuff you've been doing since Windows 3.1 all those years ago. Weirdly, there's a version of Internet Explorer down there too which doesn't have the same windows as the one "above" – so you can have two versions of Internet Explorer going with totally different screens.One other point: the "below" version of Windows 8 is like Windows 7 – except there's no Start button. It's gone. You're intended to find your way around to programs via search (via the Charms, which are still there on the right). Once you've accepted that, you'll find that Windows 8 – or 7+1 – runs quicker, more securely, and much more like the operating systems we're used to on tablets and smartphones, which are themselves becoming the principal way people do computing; if you include them in your totals, PCs are barely a majority of the computers now in use worldwide.So for Microsoft, Windows 8 is a huge leap forward – and yet it's doing it while holding all the baggage of the "old" Windows going back decades. Expect some cries of pain in the weeks and months to come as people adjust. However, viewed more broadly, it couldn't do anything else: the desktop paradigm is getting tired, and the tiles approach is fresh and quickly becomes intuitive. In a few years, taking a trip down to the Morlocks' level may feel like a fleeting visit to a long-forgotten friend: so much to talk about, but much more important things to do elsewhere.That Windows 8 is going to be a huge hit is a given; PCs sell in big enough numbers that it's a given. What will be fascinating to watch is how it is received – and whether it does better for tablets than on PCs (where corporations can "downgrade" to Windows 7). With everything to play for, Microsoft's refreshed the way to think about computing.
It's time for our weekly roundup of new games for smartphones and tablets, this time covering iOS, Android and Windows Phone.The week's pick of new and notable games includes board and letter games, fashion retail, racing, flinging potatoes, managing Arsenal and the return of an 80s icon, He-Man.CarcassonneWith plenty of fans on other platforms, board game Carcassonne has made the leap to Windows Phone, courtesy of Microsoft Studios. It sees you placing tiles with roads, fields, cities and other features, while trying to dominate your opponents. Xbox functionality is included.Windows PhoneLetterpress: Word GameDeveloper Atebits is best known as the firm behind Twitter app Tweetie, which was acquired by Twitter a couple of years ago and used as the basis for its official iOS app. Now the developer is back on its own two feet with Letterpress, a well-designed twist on Boggle's find-words-in-a-grid-of-letters formula, including Words With Friends-style turn-based play against friends.iPhone / iPadHe-Man: The Most Powerful Game in the UniverseQuite a claim, even if it is riffing off the original cartoon show's slogan. If The Smurfs could become a lucrative hit on iOS in 2011, what price He-Man in 2012? This action game sees you battling the likes of Beast Man and Skeletor across 27 levels, with in-app purchases included to upgrade He-Man's power.iPhone / iPadAyakashi: Ghost GuildZynga is getting into the card-battling genre of mobile games, which has previously been dominated by publishers from Japan like DeNA and Gree. This game, which has just been released globally, takes a fantasy RPG setting, as you build a deck of digital cards to battle ghosts and other players alike.Android / iPhonePocket ClothierIt's been out on Android for a while, but Japanese publisher Kairosoft's fashion-retail sim is now available on iOS too. It has all the trademark features of the company's previous games (Game Dev Story, Dungeon Village etc), as you turn a small shop into a bustling "super-brand".iPhone / iPadBeach Buggy BlitzThis has also been out for a while on Android, so why include it again? Until now, it's been restricted to devices with Tegra processors, but now developer Vector Unit has opened it up to others, including Samsung's Galaxy S III. As before, it's a bouncy beach-racer with impressive graphics and a free-to-play business model.AndroidArsenal Fantasy Manager 2013It's safe to say there are a few Arsenal fans wishing they had control of the club's transfer policy and team selection right now. Developer From The Bench's new mobile game may ease their frustrations a little bit. It puts you in charge of the club, with players' skills depending on their performance in real-life games. Oh...Android / iPhone / iPadPunch QuestRocketcat Games won lots of fans with its Mage Gauntlet game for iOS. This follow-up looks equally fun: an "arcade-style fighting game, entirely controlled by taps with your left and right thumbs". Which is basically an excuse for an array of dungeon-based punchupery, with monsters.iPhone / iPadPotaTossFunded on Kickstarter, this is a bit like Angry Birds, except with the birds and pigs replaced by... potatoes. Yes. The twist is its location-based levels: depending where you are in the world, you'll see a backdrop based on your nearest big city. Which may sound a bit gimmicky, but the game is good fun.iPhone / iPadContract Killer 2Glu Mobile's freemium long-range-shoot-em-up has spawned a sequel, which sees you roaming the world conducting more hit-jobs on unsuspecting foes. Well, unsuspecting if you do it right. The gameplay is a mixture of sniping and close-quarters combat, with lots of upgrades available, buoyed by in-app purchases.Android / iPhone / iPadZombiewoodThere are easily enough zombie-themed games on the App Store to form a huge, shambling horde to take over the world now. Zombiewood is the latest, although it comes from a proven source: Gameloft. The plot sees zombies invading the streets of Los Angeles (insert own "how would anyone tell?" joke here), with the gameplay being dual-stick shooting as you try to clear them off.iPhone / iPadCrossword DungeonFantasy dungeon-crawling and popular-with-pensioners word gaming... Together at last! Yes, Crossword Dungeon is an unholy blend of adventuring and puzzling, but it might just work a treat. It sees you questing through a dungeon where "every level is made up of a procedurally-generated crossword, and each letter guarded by a vile monster". Guessing letters right kills the beasts, with endearing pixel-art graphics adding to the charm.iPhoneCricket Captain 2012App Store reviewer BarnetOscar has already nailed this one: "Good if you want a football manager for cricket. In fact you'll have no other option." But yes, this sees you in charge of a cricket team (English, Australian or Indian), with a database of more than 4,000 real players, and a mixture of strategy and contractual negotiations.iPhone / iPadPenny Arcades On The Rain-Slick Precipice of Darkness 3Long title, strong game. Based on the existing Steam and Xbox game, this sees you exploring a 16-bit adventure featuring "A cunning evil Doctor, a series of Unexplainable Thefts, a Mysterious Book of Power and Enigmatic Supernatural Forces". Also unexplained capital letters. Still, it's a well-crafted labour of love. The link above is for Android, buthere's the iOS version.Android / iPhone / iPadQuest &amp; Sorcery Skyfall2012 has seen rich pickings for fans of RPG games on the App Store, with Mobage's Quest &amp; Sorcery the latest to strap on its sword and go looking for monsters and loot. It includes a mixture of solo and co-operative missions, as you explore a world that the developers promise will be "ever-evolving".iPhone / iPadTwist PilotBritish studio Crash Lab signed on with Zynga to publish this puzzle-action game, which is also part of Sony's PlayStation Mobile initiative. It sees you guiding a little chap named Phil through 72 levels trying not to touch the sides, with nefarious spiders trying to impede him as he goes. Quirky, and very fun.Android / iPhone / iPadArel Wars 2Korean publisher Gamevil has brought its latest tower-defence sequel from Android to iOS, as you muster your troops to protect your castle over eight worlds, each with 15 stages to conquer (or avoid being conquered, given the genre). Battling other players is part of the fun too.iPhone / iPadShardlandsShardlands is picking up a fair amount of buzz this week, and rightfully so: its blend of action-adventuring, puzzles and "big scary monsters" is a treat, with graphics well worth showing off on your device. With 20 levels, there's plenty of brain-bending in store too.iPhone / iPadRoyal Revolt!This is the latest "reverse tower-defence" game, which means that rather than fending off hordes of onrushing enemies, you're playing the enemies. Who are now the heroes, I guess. Anyway, it's very good, with spiffing graphics, 30 castles to conquer, and a medieval setting.AndroidMirrors of Albion HDHidden object games should be massively popular on iPad, but they don't seem to have quite taken off as much as you'd think. Maybe Mirrors of Albion can help change that. Released by Game Insight, it's set in "a mystical version of Victorian England" where Sherlock Holmes meets Alice in Wonderland. As ever, you're looking for objects hidden in plain view in a variety of locations.iPadThat's our selection, but what are you playing this week on your smartphone or tablet? Make your recommendations, or provide feedback on the games we've chosen, by posting a comment.
Apple's launch of asmaller, cheaper iPadthis week generated a global hullabaloo, but for one Chinese businessman in Brazil, it cannot have seemed quite so extraordinary.Paulo Xu had been there and done that – a year earlier and for half the price – with a 300-reais (£100) tablet computer that has brought the internet into hundreds of thousands of low-income homes for the first time.The technology may have been less advanced, but the simple device showed how new combinations of manufacturing nous and marketing opportunities are changing the face of the electronics industry in emerging economies.With the European market in crisis and production costs rising in China, Latin America is an increasingly attractive proposition for many major firms seeking new areas of growth. In recent weeks, BMW, Foxconn and Hyundai have announced major new investments in Brazil.Xu arrived many years earlier and has since built one of Brazil's fastest growing computer companies.Born Xu Wei to a middle-class family in Nantong, Jiangsu province, he came to Brazil in 1994, adopted the name Paulo, and started out in the kitchen of a Japanese restaurant, where he says he worked 17 hours a day and earned 450 reais a month.But like his idol, Li Ka Shing – Asia's richest man – he had ambitions to become an entrepreneur. Xu opened a restaurant, then a gift shop, then moved into consumer electronics by forming a new company, Digital Life, in 2004.He started out with car audio equipment and moved into the tablet business a few years ago, getting technical advice from manufacturers in China. Many components are made in his homeland, but all the assembly work is done in Brazil, which enables him to qualify for generous tax breaks.To avoid competition with higher-end devices made by multinational brands, Digital Life aims at thegrowing niche of low-income consumers.Thanks to strong economic growth, government wealth redistribution polices and – sometimes alarmingly – extended credit lines, this group are starting to buy smartphones, motorbikes and other products that were unavailable to them before.Digital Life's cheapest tablet computer, which retails for 300 reais (£93), has an 800 MHz processor, four gigabytes of memory, an 18cm (7in) screen and a wireless modem. Unusually for a tablet, it also has a port for a cable connection because many purchasers do not want to pay extra for routers.Despite a slowdown of the Brazilian economy in 2012 to about 2%, Xu expects sales of his low-price tablet to increase tenfold this year to 1m units, and to rise to 2.5m by 2014."When it comes to the Chinese and Brazilian markets, my advice is to bet on the economy and work honestly. That always gives a return," he says.His business owes much to the model that made China the workshop of the world: importing hi-tech components from overseas and assembling them cheaply.In his case, this is being done on a medium scale at a factory in Minas Gerais. But multinationals are starting to follow suit.With costs rising in China and the Latin American market growing, several big manufacturers are expanding their operations in Brazil.Taiwan'sFoxconn, which assembles products for Apple and others, is moving more of its operations from China. Since opening its first factory in Brazil last year, it has ramped up production. Last month, it announced a 1bn reais plan to build its seventh plant in Brazil. The megafacility in São Paulo will assemble smartphones and tablet computers and provide 10,000 jobs.China's Chery Automobile recently unveiled a $400m investment in a new factory in São Paulo that will have the capacity to produce 150,000 vehicles per year once it is finished towards the end of 2013.This week, BMW announced plans to build its first car plant in Latin America. Construction will begin next April on the $264 factory in Araquari. South Korea's Hyundai and Samsung are also working on new factories in Brazil.Brazil is in dire need of more manufacturing to rebalance an economy that is over-reliant on exports of commodities such as soy, iron ore and oil. China is its main customer for raw materials and greatest competitor for manufactured goods. For most of the past decade, cheap Chinese goods have dominated.This has been a similar story in much of Latin America, but there are signs that this may be changing as the costs of doing business in China start to rise because of improved labour regulations and a stronger currency. According to a recent study by JP Morgan, labour costs in Mexico and China are now almost equal – a dramatic change since 2003, when the latter was three times cheaper.But Brazil still has to catch up. Compared with China, Xu says, Brazil has more bureaucracy, less developed supply chains and weaker industrial promotion policies.Nonetheless, with the Chinese market more saturated and competitive, he sees the greatest future opportunities in Brazil."The Brazilian market is very big and diverse because Brazilians like new things, especially technology. Chinese consumers are more conservative," he says. "All the expansions that we are planning will be made right here in Brazil."Additional reporting by Carolina Massote• This article was amended on 28 October 2012 to correct Paulo Xu's given name.
It's Thursday and I'm just about to present an event at GameCity! Wish me luck!
Microsoft is set to unveil a radical overhaul of its flagship Windows computer software in a bid to regain ground on rivals Apple and Google.The technology giant will launch Windows 8 at a press conference in New York on Thursday in what is being called the boldest move by Microsoft in three decades.Windows 8 is a significant shift from previous versions of the software because it is based on touchscreens, rather than the traditional PC and mouse.Some analysts see Windows 8 and the Surface tablet computer, announced in July, as a final roll of the dice by Microsoft in its attempt to survive the decline of the PC and compete in a world dominated by Apple iPhones, iPads and Google's Android software."For Microsoft this is a very, very important launch," said Annette Jump, a research director at analysts Gartner. "It is a major software shift which Microsoft is hoping will help it expand beyond the PC. It will either enable them to expand to tablets and smartphones, but if it doesn't, then it will be a setback."Microsoft's share of personal devices has shrunk dramatically in recent years, from 95% of the PC-only market to roughly one third of all personal device sales, including PCs, tablet computers and mobiles, according to analysts Forrester.Unlike previous versions of Windows, Windows 8 is built for PCs and tablet computers. It sees the traditional program icons replaced by tiles, which users swipe and touch to operate, though the old Windows desktop is still available via one of the tiles. The clean and crisp design has garnered positive reviews from early users, even though it is a radical shift from previous Windows versions, which hundreds of millions of PC owners use daily.The software will be officially unveiled on Thursday and will be available to buy from the end of the week, when its much-hyped tablet computer, Surface, will also go on sale.Andrew Johnson, a senior analyst and managing vice-president at Gartner, said the immediate response to the Windows 8 launch on Thursday would be critical for Microsoft, which has historically struggled to communicate the "cool factor" of its previous products."Will Microsoft be defending themselves on shortcomings or will they be riding the tide? There's so much more at stake here and not really a plan B," Johnson said.Frank Gillet, an analyst at Forrester, described Windows 8 as an "original and impressive response to new technologies and competition" and said it was the most radical overhaul since the original Windows replaced DOS in 1995.He forecast that the software will help Microsoft to a 30% share of the booming tablet market by 2016, but would do little to boost the company's presence in smartphones. Analysts expect a rush of new tablet computers running Windows 8 to be released in time for Christmas.The launch occurs at an inopportune moment for Microsoft, coming just 48 hours after Apple stole the headlines with the launch of its new iPad mini and after its own Microsoft-built tablet, Surface, was slated inearly reviews published overnight on Tuesday.The reviews praised the Windows 8 software on the Surface, but were quick to criticise the device for its apparently poor resolution, substandard camera and a lack of available apps.• This article was amended on 25 October 2012 to clarify that Windows 8 is not for smartphones, and the Windows 7 desktop is still available in Windows 8
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple loses touch patent smackdown to Samsung in Netherlands &gt;&gt; AllThingsDApple doesn't seem to be having much luck asserting its multitouch patent against rivals abroad.A Dutch court on Wednesday found thatSamsung did not infringe Apple's so-called "touch event" technology, a feature which associate multitouch flags with one or more views."The court judges that Samsung with the trading of its Galaxy products does not infringe on [Apple's patent]," the Court of The Hague explained in its ruling. "Apple, as the unsuccessful party, will be ordered to pay the litigation costs."(Thanks @rquick for the link.)How a Google headhunter's email unravelled a massive net security hole &gt;&gt; Wired.comMichael Orlando, vulnerability analyst with CERT, said his group planned torelease an announcement about the issuethis week to spread the word.The fix is an easy one - companies simply need to generate a new key at the stronger length and place it in their DNS records. But they also need to remember to revoke their old key, Harris says."As long as the old one is still in the DNS record, even if you're not using it, an attacker can still use it," he says.(Thanks @ponk2k for the link.)Sony faces setback as hackers release PlayStation 3 decryption keys &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaSony faced a setback in its campaign to control what software can run on its PlayStation 3 after hackers published one of the cryptographic keys that forms the core of the security scheme locking down the game console.A cat-and-mouse game. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)I just bought more than 1 million ...Facebook data entries. OMG! &gt;&gt;Talk WebI have the bloody habit to look for cheap deals on some websites and today I've got the featured offer to buy more than 1 million Facebook entries containing Full Name, e-mail and Facebook profile URL.Concerning. (Thanks @Sputnikkers for the link.)European Parliament endorses stricter European export control of digital arms &gt;&gt; Marietje Schaake MEP's siteBy endorsing amendments proposed by Dutch Member of European Parliament Marietje Schaake (D66/ALDE) the European Parliament wants EU export control regulation to include additional binding export controls for technologies that are used by authoritarian regimes to monitor, track and trace citizens. Companies should ask for export authorization if they have reasons to believe that certain exports might harm human rights. The Parliament also calls for an EU-wide application of the additional licensing requirements, EU Member States are obliged to block exports of technologies to countries facing emergency situations. "This is a big step forward in our battle against digital arms trade. It is unacceptable that regimes in Syria and Iran can use European technologies to violate human rights, let alone that European companies are actively involved in that", Schaake says.Good news if this has really been achieved through that move. Or will it just mean that other countries export the products to repressive regimes?The trouble with APIs &gt;&gt; Stu CharltonThere's no simple way to summarise this. If you're interested in APIs, you'll find it interesting.OMG... now O2 has launched a mobile card reader &gt;&gt; Mobile Money RevolutionOn the day thatiZettle confirms its intention to launch in the UK, Brit operator O2 has confirmed that it too is launching into this ridiculously crowded sector.Thanks to the massive success of Square in the US, everyone's piling into the market for mobile card reading. PayPal, Intuit, Verifone and others have launched Stateside, while Payleven, SumUp, mPowa and more are battling each other in Europe.However the US-based versions can't attack the UK or European markets: no chip-and-PIN. (Even some of the players in the UK and European market don't have that capability - which might separate them out quite quickly.)Despite piracy, there WILL be another Android Football Manager game &gt;&gt; The AppsideSports Interactive has confirmed that it will be releasing Football Manager Handheld 2013 for Android, despite heavy piracy of the 2012 version - its first for Android devices.Studio director Miles Jacobsen tells Red Bull's website that the ratio of pirated downloads to legitimately bought copies of Football Manager Handheld 2012 for Android is now "ranging between nine to one and 11 to one".We've heard the same figures from Jacobsen. It's quite a problem for app developers: it has to represent lost revenue.What are the best examples of software bugs that became features? &gt;&gt; QuoraThis is from an anecdote by Ken Demarest, one of the original developers who worked on Wing Commander I on the PC...... we were getting an exception from our EMM386 memory manager when we exited the game. We'd clear the screen and a single line would print out, something like "EMM386 Memory manager error. Blah blah blah." We had to ship ASAP. So I hex edited the error in the memory manager itself to read "Thank you for playing Wing Commander!"Actually, thewhole threadis worth reading, starting with Space Invaders.Cracking TrueCrypt 7 &gt;&gt; TCHeadQ. Can TCHead brute-force TrueCrypt?A. Yes. However, TrueCrypt passwords go through many iterations and are strengthened. Cracking them takes time. Very strong passwords will not be cracked. Also, in addition to trying multiple passwords an attacker must try each password against each combination of hash and cipher (assuming they do not know what these are beforehand). System encrypted hard drives use only one hash and cipher, so attacking those is faster.Hard to know whether to be worried about this or not.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Journey has won this year'sGameCity prize. The downloadable PlayStation title, in which players control a mysterious character on a quest through a haunting desert landscape, beat six other shortlisted titles to claim the award.The prize was judged by a panel of writers and broadcasters from outside the games industry, including Lord Puttnam, comic book artist Dave Gibbons, Financial Times journalist Lucy Kellaway and DJ Jo Whiley. The aim of the annual competition, which takes place as part of Nottingham's GameCity festival is to highlight interesting titles and to encourage debate and discussion about the state of game design."All of the Jury commented on the art direction in particular, the extraordinary sense of size and scale it portrayed," said Lord Puttnam. "Whilst it was a short game, it was in no way small. It's a focused, detailed piece of work - challenging you to measure it in terms other than just the length of gameplay. One of the jury commented that it was like a favourite place, a walk in the country, that she would love to go back and revisit".Created by US developerthatgamecompany, Journey was released on Playstation 3 in March and drew widespread critical acclaim for its beautiful visuals, haunting soundtrack and elusive, thought-provoking design. It beat other well-receieved titles such as Proteus, Mass Effect 3 and Fez.Commenting on the win, the creative director of thatgamecompany, Jenova Chen said: "I really like the goal of GameCity, to get people to notice games and talk about games, particularly for people who don't encounter many video games in their daily life. Thatgamecompany has always focused on making games for everyone, so it's nice to see GameCity recognize our game and give us an award. In the end, we believe that games are a mature media that deserve to be enjoyed and loved by everyone, by people".Journey joins last year's victor Minecraft and the offbeat duo have set a tone for what some have referred to as gaming's answer to the Turner or Booker prizes. The GameCity festival continues until Saturday with a range of talks, showcases and evening events.
Amazon is to be stripped of its huge tax advantage on the sales of electronic books after the European commission ordered Luxembourg to close a VAT loophole.Amazon is registered as a Luxembourg company and pays that country's VAT charge of 3% when it sells an ebook to a British reader, rather than the 20% it would have to charge if it were UK-based.The Guardian revealed this week thatAmazon is forcing British publishers to cover the cost of a 20% VAT charge on ebook saleseven though the true VAT cost to the online retailer is a fraction of that.The European commission – which oversees European Union law as the EU's executive arm – on Wednesday gave Luxembourg 30 days to increase its VAT rate on digital services from 3% to 15%. This will close a tax loophole that has encouraged companies such as Amazon, Skype and Netflix to be based in Luxembourg to benefit from the 3% rate when selling throughout the EU. Luxembourg must agree to change its VAT rate before the end of November, or face being referred to the European court of justice and risk fines. France has also been issued with a similar warning over its 7% rate for digital services.Amazon is expected to contest the commission ruling, so there will be no immediate impact on the cost of ebooks bought from its UK website.Luxembourg, with the lowest standard VAT rate in Europe, has been successful at attracting many global e-services providers. Under EU rules these companies are able to charge consumers across the EU the reduced Luxembourg VAT rate for these services. The home state of the consumer who makes the purchase receives no tax revenues.Charging ebooks at the 3% rate gives firms such as Amazon a huge competitive advantage over UK ebook retailers, which have to charge the local rate.The commission issued infringement proceedings in July against Luxembourg and France on the grounds that their policy was incompatible with EU law. The next step, a reasoned opinion, was published on Wednesday. Luxembourg and France will rely on the defence that there is an anomaly in EU VAT law which allows paper books and newspapers, for instance, to be charged at a reduced VAT rate; but digital must be charged at the standard, higher rate of the country in which the company is based.The commission, which is being pressured by national online booksellers which lose out to Amazon's better margins on digital sales  will demand that member states cannot act alone and must seek unanimity amongst all 27 states. Richard Asquith, Global Head of VAT, TMF Group, the indirect tax consultancy, said: "Countries across the EU have been breaking ranks by charging cut-rate VAT on services sold across borders. Luxembourg's move at the start of 2012 to cut its ebook rate to only 3% to help attract and retain the media industry has been copied by France, and I expect Belgium to do the same. The UK has held out at the full 20% VAT rate, which has a detrimental impact on the UK industry. The EC's move will seek to end these anomalies and tax competition amongst member states, and comes under pressure from member states' ministers of finance."The EU's move against Luxembourg will please the British publishing industry. British authors and publishers are fearful that Amazon's market dominance will send the industry into decline with consumers facing a smaller and less varied choice of books from fewer authors on sale in fewer retail outlets.Amazon is able to wield such power over publishers because it has a near monopoly of the UK digital book market. According to industry estimates, it sells 90% of all ebooks in Britain, while using its Luxembourg tax status to squeeze profitable terms from publishers.According to a contract seen by the Guardian, Amazon starts negotiations with its publishers on the basis that the UK VAT rate of 20% must be knocked off the cost price. However, its base in Luxembourg allows it to benefit from the European tax anomaly and pay VAT at 3%. This means that Amazon can charge the difference between the UK VAT levy imposed on publishers and the 3% it actually pays, creating a supplementary profit of £1.38  a £10 ebook in Britain. It then negotiates further substantial discounts on top of the VAT subsidy, which can result in  Amazon seeking a discount of up to 65% on ebooks including the phantom VAT charge.
Facebook's shares soared Wednesday after co-founder Mark Zuckerberg told analysts the shift to mobile would be "fundamentally good" for the company.Facebook's shares rose over 20% in early trading Wednesday to more than $23, the first time most investors had an opportunity to buy shares since Tuesday, when Facebook released its second set of results as a public company. The social network company has struggled since its disastrous initial public offering in May. Shares that launched at $38 crashed on the second day of trading and have hovered around $20 for weeks.On a conference call with analysts, Zuckerberg said Facebook's six-month old mobile ad business now accounted for 14% of advertising revenue, about $150m. The number of mobile monthly active users rose 61% to 604 million, the company said Wednesday.Mobile is the fastest growing way that people access the service and both the company and analysts have expressed concern that Facebook will struggle to make ads work on mobile devices.Zuckerberg told analysts: "I think our opportunity on mobile is the most misunderstood aspect of Facebook today," he said.Mobile sales helped Facebook's revenue rise 32% to $1.26bn in the quarter that ended September 30, slightly topping Wall Street's expectations. But despite the rising revenue, Facebook still made a loss of $59m as costs soared 64%.Citi Research upgraded the stock to buy Wednesday. "What investors have for the first time since the Facebook IPO is fundamentals acceleration with a reasonable valuation," analyst Mark Mahaney wrote in a note to clients.Facebook's IPO was marred by a series of errors, but news of its problems in mobile were probably the largest single factor in the dramatic share price fall. In regulatory filings the firm warned that mobile ad sales were negligible.The firm is also being sued by investors who claim Facebook unfairly warned some big investors about its mobile issues while withholding those fears from others.
Microsoft's Surface – the company's first  tablet computer produced in-house, and a crucial part of the software giant's strategy to survive the decline of the PC – has been given a thumbs down by reviewers.Verdicts published overnight in the US, the first from journalists to have tested Surface at home, have praised its touchscreen interface but slated the machine for poor resolution, being too heavy, using substandard cameras, and having a narrow selection of apps which are prone to crashing.Reviewers are not urging readers to rush out and buy the£399tablet, which is competing for attention not only with Apple's iPad and Google's Nexus 7, but Amazon's Kindle Fire in high definition.Wired reviewerMathew Honandescribes Surface as a tablet of both compromises and confusion, a puzzling machine which is designed both for consuming content like the iPad and for creating it like a traditional PC.The tablet will be available worldwide on Friday  after Thursday's global launch of Windows 8, the most radical redesign of Microsoft's best-selling operating system since Windows 95 a full 17 years ago.Surface, which will only be available to buy online in the UK, runs on a version of Windows 8 called WindowsRT, and its interface is primarily designed for touch.However, it also comes with a keyboard – starting at £99.99 for the touch version – and the basic Office software like Word, Excel and PowerPoint."Microsoft should have cleanly pulled the band-aid off and ditched the desktop metaphor altogether," Honan says.Surface is delightfully gesture friendly, but it does not compete with the iPad or the Kindle for reading, says Honan, because its long 10.6in screen and 1.5lb weight means it gets uncomfortable quickly.The two high definition cameras are described as junk, with some reviews claiming their pictures are grainy. But Honan's greatest criticism is reserved for the apps, or lack of them. "You'll find a better selection of apps at your local TGI Friday's," he concludes.Microsoft's late arrival in the tablet space means few programmers have created content for the Windows 8 interface.There are just under 4,000 apps worldwide, compared to 275,000 for the iPad. Facebook, Instagram, Spotify and Angry Birds are all missing from the US store, according to the New York Times.The paper's reviewer,David Pogue, says: "Surface is a brilliantly conceived machine whose hardware will take your breath away – but whose software will take away your patience."He describes the device as a compromise: "[Like] a stunning mansion on a bluff overlooking the sea – in Somalia". The screen resolution does not compare with the new iPad's, (1,366 by 768 pixels compared to 2,048 by 1,536 pixels for the Apple product), making small type harder to use.There was also disappointment at the lack of a 3G or 4G connection – Surface connects to the internet via Wi-Fi only.Pogue complains about what he calls the tablet's insanely confusing split personality, moving back and forth between the fast, fluid and fun to use touch interface of the start screen to the old Windows desktop whenever the user fires up the Office programs.At technology site The Verge,Joshua Topolskythat complained the kick stand, which pops out from the back of the machine to prop it upright like a picture frame, was sharp and scratched wooden surfaces.He was unimpressed with the Microsoft designed email service, describing it as slow to update and unresponsive to touch on a regular basis. Other apps, made by Microsoft and by third parties, could be slow to open, then stall or crash altogether.On balance, reviews of the touch interface were generally glowing, and battery life was not an issue – Microsoft's claim that Surface gives eight hours of intensive use was mostly exceeded.The Verge's conclusion: "There may be a time in the future when all the bugs have been fixed, the third-party app support has arrived, and some very smart engineers in Redmond have ironed out the physical kinks in this type of product which prevent it from being all that it can be."But that time isn't right now – and unfortunately for Microsoft, the clock is ticking."
Technology startups in the UK are spoiled for choice when it comes to potential sources of seed funding and business mentoring, with Newcastle-based accelerator programmeIgnite100emerging as one option combining the two.The scheme is a 13-week programme for 10 startups, who are either from the North East, or who move there for the duration of the programme. Demo days will take place in Newcastle and London in December. "After Seedcamp it's the oldest accelerator in the country, going since 2009," says programme manager Paul Smith.The scheme is backed by funding from the £125m Finance for Business North East programme, managed by North East Finance, as well as angel investors including Hotspur Capital, Green Lane Capital, SCM Pharma co-owner Fiona Cruickshank and Alastair Waite of Onyx Group.£100k of seed capital is available for the 10 startups: £5k per founder at the start of the programme up to a maximum of £15k, then the balance as a convertible loan note at the end if they hit pre-agreed milestones."We test their assumptions and get them to build a leaner, faster, stronger product. We also teach them presentation skills, and at the end of the programme we put them on a stage in front of investors," says Smith.Word-of-mouth buzz led to plenty of applications for this year's programme, and what Smith describes as a strong crop of startups who emerged from the selection process.They include charitable advertising product Ad Aid; Mac audio maker EarSoft; messaging startup Fantoo; sporty second-screen service Matchchat; B2B software-as-a-service web app OrderHarmony; Captcha alternative Play Captcha; social analytics service Socialrithmic; lead generation for businesses Lead Machine; Inquire.ly, which makes forms and surveys with a social context; and digital music marketing tool BeatNode.Smith says he noticed a few trends in the applications for this year's programme, including more startups focused on B2B applications and services, rather than going direct to consumers."B2B was a stronger offering this year, and the programme is a lot more focused on B2B and enterprise," he says. "We also saw a trend in there being a lot of effort going into disrupting the property market, even though that's not reflected in the teams we chose to take forward."The hothouse nature of Ignite100 is deliberate, throwing teams from a variety of backgrounds together for 13 intense weeks, both within the accelerator's offices and outside."We encourage them to be competitive with each other, but not to consider each other as competition," says Smith. "It's as much about collaboration. They're working together 16-18 hours a day, but we also house them together, and ensure they're mixing."Smith adds that Newcastle is an ideal location for this kind of scheme, thanks to its network of existing startups and support. "There's a really healthy scene in Newcastle, but it's very easily dismissed by everyone," he says."People wonder why anyone would want an accelerator in Newcastle, but there's a great tradition of technology here, a really strong talent pool, and because it's supported by VCs and angel investors, there's a really vibrant community."Smith estimates that there are probably around 30-40 startups in and around Newcastle, which he says may not sound huge compared to somewhere like Shoreditch in London, but is "pretty decent" for a regional city."Newcastle and the north east in terms of startups is very much still in beta," he says. "It's still growing and there's much to be done. But there's no self-entitlement: we don't think we must have support and we deserve success. We know we have to work hard for it."Ignite100 revolves around mentors – entrepreneurs and executives through to investors, developers and journalists (disclosure: it was through being one of the latter that I first encountered Ignite100).Smith says that he scrutinises mentors as much as the startups, with the result that around a third of last year's mentors haven't been invited back in 2012."We're keen to ensure that they all deliver value, and come prepared to listen, share experiences and share in terms of support and contact later," he says."Our reputation is built on mentoring and what our teams take away from that, so the roster has to be kept fresh. If someone can't help or support, then we don't work with them."
The launch of the iPad mini by Apple has gained huge interest – as much as anything for the fact that Phil Schiller compared it directly in onscreen presentations to the Google Nexus 7, pointing out the differences in some app experiences and screen area available for web browsing.But what do the analysts say – and what do people say? First, some data from the survey company Nielsen; and then what the analysts have said.Nielsen has some data about American tablet owners (and non-owners) which may be telling as we consider the coming "shelf wars" between the different tablets from Amazon, Apple, Google, Samsung and others.According to Nielsen:• More than 15% of US TV households own one or more tablets (Q1 2012).• 60% of new US tablet owners said device size was important in their decision to buy within the last year (Q2 2012).• 27% of US tablet buyers said they already own an eReader in their household (Q2 2012).• Among US tablet buyers, 68% didn't consider purchasing any other device (Q2 2012).And how do they use them?• Amajority of American tablet owners are likely to purchase media content on their tablets– and more likely to buy music, books, and movies on their tablets – compared with European consumers. In comparison, European tablet owners are more willing to pay for news content.• American familiessee tablets as teacher, playmate, and babysitter: 70% of tablet-owning households with children under 12 say they let them use the device.• While smartphone owners are more likely to use their devices for activities on-the-go and in-store,US tablet owners are more like to use it for online shoppingthan on smartphone.There's also this infographic showing how US owners thought about tablets.Nielsen data on the features most valued by tablet buyers. (Note: applies to existing tablet owners.)A notable point there: tablet buyers weren't very price-sensitive. But of course, that only tells you about existing owners – not the ones who haven't bought so far.And now the analysts:Francisco Jeronimo, smartphones and tablets analyst, IDC, thinks it will "disrupt the market again":"Apple created the tablet category and pushed other vendors to find niche segments, as they were not able to compete with the category killer, the 10-inch iPad. Although the likes of Google, Samsung or Amazon have found a market opportunity for their smaller and cheaper tablets, as consumers started to realise what a tablet could be used for, but wanted a more portable and cheaper device.The seven-inch size, priced at around $200, with content provided from companies like Amazon or Google was expected to become a sweet spot in the market. Despitethe position that Steve Jobs took against the 7-inch tablets, Apple needed to respond, otherwise it would risk losing an important share of the tablet market. The popularity of the Kindle eReader and the Android smartphones made consumers aware of Amazon content and Google services. The low price points of the Google Nexus 7 and the Amazon Kindle Fire have been attracting consumers looking for more affordable devices that also come with the content and services they already use or want."This new product from Apple will disrupt the market again. The iPad Mini is now the new category killer. Competitors will need to return to their R&amp;D centres and find ways to develop even cheaper versions of their products and figure out how to profit from the content, while Apple will continue to make a profit from the hardware and the content!"The popularity of the brand, the iOS ecosystem and now a more affordable price will make the iPad mini a hot product this Christmas season. Despite a higher price and strong competition from the Google's Nexus 7 and the Amazon Kindle Fire, Apple continues to deliver the best in class integration between software and hardware, delighting users with a rich content experience."When Apple launched the first iPad, consumers didn't know what to do with it, but they knew they loved and wanted it. Now Apple launches a product for those who always knew what to do with a tablet, but couldn't afford it."Fred Huet, managing director at Greenwich Consulting thinks that discussion of "missing features" misses the point:"Today's launch of the iPad Mini could prove to be a pivotal moment in disrupting the 7-inch media tablet space, an area that Android vendors have largely operated in alone, up until this point. Whilst mini in size, this device is set to throw one almighty punch in the direction of all competitors, who have for so long now had a torrid time competing against the 10-inch iPad. The iPad Mini is a clear warning shot to all competitors that the world's most valuable company is not willing to share any of its 70% market share in the tablet industry, at least not without a strong fight."As with all Apple launches, critics are always there to raise an eyebrow and discuss the missing features, and this is no exception. The lack of retina display for example was always to be expected, after all, one of Apple's biggest predicaments is that its current iPad is proving far too successful. This is a strange position to be in, but it must be remembered that the iPad Mini has been primarily launched to support its bigger brother and to maintain Apple's overall market share. The nightmare scenario for Apple would be if their latest device was so convincing that it substituted potential new iPad custom to a smaller model on a lower price tier, effectively cannibalising existing sales."Whether the iPad mini takes off among consumers remains to be seen. Sales are expected to be strong in Asia, and particularly China, where there is recognised consumer demand for a product of this size. Such a trend remains in its early stages in the UK, but with mobile screens becoming increasingly larger in size, this seems like a natural progression, something that Apple could capitalise upon."Over the years, Apple have been somewhat reserved when selecting screen sizes for each its mobile devices, as confirmed at the launch of the iPhone 5, a smartphone designed to stand 0.8 inch smaller than its key rival, the Samsung Galaxy SIII. Those past reservations however could now play into the hands of Apple, with the iPad Mini clearly positioned as a neat compromise to those seeking a mid-sized Apple device, one that is arguably too big to compete with a smartphone and yet small enough not to damage sales of the iPad."This is a strategy that Steve Jobs himself opposed in 2010, but is one that has become necessary today considering the growing consumer demand across the globe for mid-sized devices. Furthermore, this is a launch that would perhaps not be as beneficial for the likes of Samsung to execute, considering the vast array of sizes that already exist in its product range. Should the iPad Mini sell out with its premium price tag, competition will need to quickly find another point of differentiation, in order to take a hold on the tablet market, which is projected to stand at around $162bn by 2017."Ravi Kamran, chief executive of Trademob, a European app marketing platform, thinks the money is in the ecosystem:"The tablet market is gaining steam. Initially Google and Amazon had to respond to the iPad, and they did so with their 7-inch tablets. Now it's Apple's turn to respond with the fourth-generation iPad and iPad Mini. Ultimately, when we see this kind of heated competition, it's consumers who benefit. At last count, there were about 225,000 apps optimised for the iPad – an impressive number, but only a fraction of the apps available on the iPhone. As more people purchase tablets, app developers will increasingly see an opportunity to make money from a market that has nowhere to go but up."Apple, Google and Amazon clearly view tablets as vehicles for content. For them, the money isn't there to be made with the hardware, but rather with the rich ecosystem of apps and similar content."
Mid-week gaming chat ahoy!
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamEE announces 4G tariff details &gt;&gt; guardian.co.ukAnd everyone detests them.Samsung says it's still supplying LCD panels to Apple &gt;&gt; CNET NewsSamsung refuted claims that its display business plans to end its LCD panel supply agreement with Apple, saying the report from a Korean publication was incorrect.The Korea Times, citing an unnamed senior Samsung source, said Samsung was taking the step by the end of this year because it "believes its American partner is no longer a cash-generator due to the iPhone maker's stiffer supply-chain management structure."(Thanks @ponk2k for the correcting link tothis story.)Patent office tentatively invalidates Apple's rubber-banding patent used in Samsung trial &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsThe United States Patent and Trademark Office has good news for Samsung, and Samsung has already shared it with Judge Koh in a late-night filing. In a non-final Office action the USPTO has declared all 20 claims of Apple's rubber-banding patent (U.S. Patent No, 7,469,381invalid, including claim 19, which Apple successfully asserted against Samsung in the summer trial in California.This is potentially huge for Samsung against Apple, because the "rubber-banding" patent - what happens when you scroll too far - was a linchpin in Apple's win. If Judge Koh agrees, she could overrule the jury and void many of the damages against Samsung. But it's a big if - this could be appealed and appealed. And in effect, Apple has got what it wants: Samsung (and Google) have already changed their software's scrolling behaviour. A non-patent that changed behaviours - and it's only cost millions in legal fees. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)The best graphics that make you realise you don't know how big anything actually is &gt;&gt; Smart NewsThe Smithsonian Magazine has a go at the world's longest headline, but these are graphical representations that are actually useful - if making yourself feel tiny is useful.Samsung Chromebook: hands-on review &gt;&gt; Information WeekWhat happened? Google decided to stop fighting the desktop metaphor. Early Chromebooks, like Google's CR-48 and the first generation Samsung and Acer devices, were about as much fun to use as an airport computing kiosk set up to support Web browsing and nothing more. Chrome OS felt like a prison, like the desktop typically behind the browser had been hidden. That may have been nothing more than user expectation, but user expectation is part of the user experience, and that experience tends not to be positive when expectation is denied.Earlier this year, Google made its Chrome OS browser window behave like a browser on a Mac or Windows computer--it can now be minimized to reveal a desktop with files and icons. Chrome OS has gained a menu bar at the bottom of the screen with Web app icons. Clicking on a device-related icon, like the battery, produces a free-floating menu pane, without any reference to the Chrome browser. There's a files folder, accessible from the Apps menu in the menu bar, that displays local downloads and remote Google Drive files. In other words, Chromebooks have adopted more legacy user interface conventions and are better for it.So basically, ChromeOS can't beat the desktop paradigm. But at that price, who minds? (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)Beyond their 10 blue links, Google's and Bing's search strategies diverge &gt;&gt; TechCrunchIntriguing:Not too long ago, Google and Bing seemed fully focused on adding as many social features to their search engines as possible. For Google, that meant adding lots of Google+ features and for Bing it meant making the best out of its exclusive relationship with Facebook. Since then, though, it seems the two search engines' strategies have changed, with Google slowly deemphasizing social search and Bing going all in by adding more social features than ever.(Thanks @rubbernuke for the link.)Night and the City &gt;&gt; Eurogamer.net"One of the nicer tech stories I've read over the weekend," says @ponk2k (who provided the link). The story of someone playing LA Noire with his dad; it is.Universally compatible beercan keyboard created using Raspberry Pi and Arduino &gt;&gt; The VergeOh, but where would you get the empty beer cans? Wait, start with full cans... (Thanks @rubbernuke for the link.)Mobile Apps: HTML5 vs Native &gt;&gt; Eric SinkThis issue is not new.Back in the 1960s and 1970s, when we only had mainframes and minicomputers, there was a distinction between smart terminals (thick clients) and dumb terminals (thin clients).In the 1980s, we got workstations (really expensive thick clients, purchased by people who perceived them as cheap compared to the mainframes and minis) and microcomputers (far less expensive thick clients, purchased by people who previously didn't have a computer at all).You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
