So, it went pretty much as expected here when Steve Jobs rolled out the keynote speech for the Macworld conference.We weren't given wi-fi access inside the main conference room itself, which prevented me from blogging the announcements in real time, but if you want to see exactly what was put out on stage, take a look at theApple websiteThe big products, hardware-wise were the MacMini - the monitorless unit that had been codenamed Q88 in pre-show speculation - and the flash-based iPod Shuffle, a dinky little unit that is intended to break the lower end of the market.MacMini:Jobs: "This is the most affordable Mac ever. In fact it's the cheapest computer Apple has ever offered."It's tiny (around 6"x2") but comes without any peripherals at all, in a move which Jobs termed "BYODKM" (Bring Your Own Desktop Mouse and Keyboard). It was eerily reminiscent of the ill-fated Cube, but perhaps Apple feel that the price point ($499 for the cheapest, 40GB model) was the most important thing. Personally, I'm disappointed that they didn't use this opportunity to move into Media Center territory and are instead focusing on converting existing PC users and getting them into the Mac fold.iPod Shuffle:Steve gave a warning to the rest of the digital music player market when he pointed out iPod's figures."A year ago iPod's market share was about 31% and flash players had 62%. We introduced the iPod Mini to go after the high end of the flash market. By January 2005, the iPod's market share has doubled to 65% and flash has halved. But we'd like to go after the remaining mainstream flash market."And this little model is what they want to do that. No screen, and wearable (either pendant-style, sport armband etc), it's probably going to be a much more important product to Apple in terms of volume than the MacMini. It comes in sizes of 512MB and 1GB - not 2GB, which disappointed those of us who had thought it might be on the cards, and costs either $99 or $149. Contrary to rumours before the show, it *can* play designated playlists as well as on random, so it's not going to annoy music fanatics too much.Steve also demonstrated the new iLife, iWork and OSX Tiger - all building on existing products really.One big surprise was when he wheeled out the president of Sony, Kunitake Ando, to talk about the dual push from the firms to promote HDTV over the next year. Two rivals getting together to promote a standard was an interesting twist that I hadn't anticipated. But then apparently neither had Jobs - Ando said he'd only got the invite to turn up and speak at the weekend.The crowd were behaving in their usual over-excited manner (people running to get seats, whooping with delight all the way through, laughing at jokes that weren't even funny) but that's the way Apple does things, I suppose. Strange, when you consider they're just a technology firm, but there's a kind of giddy excitement that passes around most of the arena in waves.Anyway, those are the big announcements. I'll write more later - time to go and look around the stands.
Some days you look at the latest videogame press releases and despair as a limp parade of lifeless sequels and movie tie-ins skulk apologetically before you. But once in a while, a couple of completely unexpected gems bob to the surface amid the oh-so-predictable slurry. Today, as Ice Cube so eloquently put it, was a good day, with two of the strangest product endorsements of recent times.HorsesFirst up, Ubisoft has announced the development of Pippa Funnell: The Stud Farm Inheritance, an equestrian sim sponsored by the eponymous Olympic horse rider. You play as budding young starlet Estelle (I don't think it's the rapper, that would be an endorsement too far even for this project) who must compete in a series of riding events, through ten different environments. Brilliantly, one of the USPs listed on Ubisoft's press release is 'customisable horses' - obviously they have one cunning eye on the large horse riding/car modding crossover market.I am pretty excited about this game. While Sony and Microsoft are continually banging on about how games must now appeal to a wider audience than just young men, Ubisoft has just rolled up its sleeves and leapt straight in there. And not with the usual disco dancing title or weak Sims rip-off, but with a horse game that blatantly and gratuitously has 'Stud' in the title. As John Parkes, marketing director of Ubisoft, himself states:"Pippa Funnell: The Stud Farm Inheritance is a first for the UK gaming market. This is a game that can appeal to a wide range of people, even those who may not have played videogames before"You said it, John!graffitiLater, another press release arrived, this time for Marc Ecko's Getting Up: Contents Under Pressure, a graffiti sim set in an oppressive near-future distopia. According to the release, Marc Ecko is a fashion pioneer and ex-graffiti artist who wants to ask the vital question, "What if graffiti could change the world?". To help him answer, you must take on the role of a young graffiti brat as he hones his tagging style, fights bad guys, sneaks into prime graffiti locations and eventually becomes an "All City King," the most reputable of all graffiti artists.Alright, so there's more than a whiff of Jet Set Radio about this Atari PS2 release. But a licensed graffiti sim? Who saw that coming?Clearly, the industry's obsession with brands and tie-ins has reached a kind of warped crescendo here today. Bizarre game concepts endorsed by anonymous experts - is this a Dadaist comment on the state of the videogame market? Oh who cares, it's brilliant. Take your retro cop shows, your life-draining summer blockbusters, your idiot millionaire sportsmen. The future is the micro-brand, designed to expertly target a small group of dedicated enthusiasts. TV has fractured into a thousand channels, videogame licensing may well be going the same way.I've seen the future and it lives on Pippa Funnell's stud farm.
Sonyannouncedon Monday that their multimillion-selling series Grand Theft Auto is set to land on their forthcoming handheld "around" the time of the console's Europeanlaunch(fromgamesindustry.biz). With the latest game in the series topping the 1.74m sales mark on only one platform, something tells me that this time the franchise won't be available on thecompetition's machine.This isn't the first time GTA has been in the palm of players' hands; it made its debut on the GameBoy last October. The PSP version is currently under production in Rockstar's Leeds studio, where the boys (and girls) are working furiously on a brand new level set in Liberty City. Retro!
Amongst the outpouring of epithets and personal attacks resulting from yesterday's postarguing for price hikes, Alex F asks a curious question about the potential of indie games rising out of the rubble, in a thoughtful comparison with the rise of indie films. Certainly, the sequelitis which the industry is currently suffering from is a symptom of the fear many developers and publishers have about the cost of software failure. In fact here in the UK the industry is feeling the crunch: games companies are dropping or are being consolidated into North American giants. However, there are a few bastions of hope which do suggest that the games industry recognises and welcomes independent thought, particularly because indie games developers cut through the proverbial crap (because it costs too much), delivering what many of the bigwigs remember from their distant pasts as boy coders in their bedrooms: pure, unadulterated gameplay.Loads of people responded with indie games festivals as a result ofthispost.We covered independent games as avenues for agendashere.You can play many independent games, including some UK offerings, viathispost.And Keith covers some indie games sites in hisfoolish predictions for 2005.Another possible future is, again parallel with Hollywood, that these indies will be incorporated by the major players to act as "creative arms". While that still has some limitations, at least we'll get more for our buck than FIFA 2943.
With the massive success of the diminutive new PS2, you'd think Microsoft would be aware of how important design aesthetic is. But reading Bill Gates'interviewsabout the future of the Xbox last week didn't fill me with great hope. If you missed them ol' Bill essentially confirmed what we already knew. Namely that he wants to take the Xbox beyond videogames and converge it into the whole digital lifestyle (TM). But Bill seems to be missing something rather important here - how the thing looks. It may be the most powerful console around, but the Xbox is an ugly mess. Bill - employ some proper designers for Xbox 2 and make a console that people would be proud to have under their telly, rather than faintly embarrassed like now.
With less than 24 hours to go until Apple unveil their new releases here inSan Francisco, the anticipation among the thousands of geeks swarming over the city is reaching fever pitch. The convention centre was pretty quiet when I arrived there this morning, but a constant influx of people meant it just kept getting busier and busier.The talk is still, of course, about therumours of the headless Mac: will it be a rival to the Microsoft Media Center? Will it simply be aimed at ousting for those who want replacement computers? Does it even exist?It seems a given that a new 1GB flash-based iPod will be unveiled (which is apparently going to be called the iPod Shuffle), and one bunch of intrepid Italians even managed to take some pictures of apromotional banner being unfurledfor the little gizmo. The slogan? "Life is random"... I can only assume that it means you get little control over which of its 250ish songs you want to listen to.Unfortunately, I've not been in the right place at the right time to whisk myself, cat-like, into the secret heart of the Moscone Center and sneak a peek at the products being prepared for the big release. It seems security is pretty tight on all would-be snoopers.And, since there's no webfeed of the speech - or even a broadcast in Apple stores - hopefully I'll be able to update the blog live from the keynote tomorrow morning (around 5pm GMT). Here's hoping Apple don't put the kibosh on that, too.If you can't wait for tomorrow, why not check outCharles Arthur's Steve Jobs bingo cardand get a flavour of what it's going to be like?(hat tip toBeckyfor spotting that one)
Bill Gates is an intelligent man who has done a great deal of good in the world. So when he gets caught out in a bare-faced lie this should matter to all of us; and last week, when he called the opponents of American intellectual property law a "communist" movement he was encouraging a mistake that could impoverish the entire world.He said: "Of the world's economies, there's more that believe in intellectual property today than ever. There are fewer communists in the world today than there were. There are some new modern-day sort of communists who want to get rid of the incentive for musicians and moviemakers and software makers under various guises. They don't think that those incentives should exist."The argument in principle that Gates makes against "communism" starts in exactly the right place. But his vested interests lead him to drag it in the wrong direction. It is as if the Sheriff of Nottingham were to announce that it's enormously important that your property was protected from criminals - so he'll take everything you have that might be stolen and lock it up for safety in his castle.To start with the good bit of his argument, it is true - as Gates says - that intellectual property matters and copyright benefits the whole of society, and needs to be enforced. The market is a very efficient way of producing good software, and if it is to work then the rules must be enforced, and copyrighted software protected not just by law, but by active policing. Copying without permission seems a victimless crime; but in the long run it is a crime of which we are all victims.This is not just an argument in fairness that says that the author of a work deserves the reward of his or her labours. There is the argument from efficiency, and social benefit. Copyright makes possible a proper market in intangible goods, which means more of them will be produced, which means we all will benefit.Markets aren't the only system by which software gets produced. Plenty of books were produced for love, or without the hope of gain. Shakespeare could hardly have written more if he had been rolling in royalties. Even today, a great deal of the most important software in the world is freely produced and freely given away. Every time you connect to the internet, or look something up on Google, you are relying on software at the other end of the connection which, like Linux, is free for anyone to copy or use.This puts a painful cramp on Microsoft's monopoly. You can see why Gates hates it. If the free OpenOffice software, which can largely replace Microsoft Office, caught on, the cramp would become more painful still. But if Microsoft loses its 69% profit margin on Office, that's not communism, or even anarchy. The free software movement is protected by intellectual property law as much as commercial software is, since copyright law ensures that the code which has been freely given away cannot be taken back into private ownership. And most of the important stuff is written by programmers employed by large companies to strike back at Microsoft. Sun, for example, writes almost all of OpenOffice. That's global capitalism at its nastiest - and most inventive.The real problem with Microsoft's monopoly is that not even Microsoft can compete with its own products - there's no reason to buy new ones when the old ones work well. It has been years since it came out with any program so immediately attractive that people wanted to upgrade. This is a very unhappy position, but that's capitalism.No law of nature says that companies have to stay profitable just because they were in the past. This is a problem for the whole software industry, but the solution Gates favours is bad for all of us. This is to get governments to supply the missing law and to ensure that Microsoft and other large companies will be profitable for ever, at the expense of any smaller, newer, hungrier ones. Software will be protected not just by copyright, but by patents. This makes about as much sense as patenting jokes.Software builds on other people's ideas. Claiming royalties on certain fundamental ideas looks like an easy road to endless riches: BT attempted to patent the clicking on hyperlinks in the world wide web. Microsoft has applied for 1,500 patents, some of them nearly as ridiculous. If these were granted, or enforceable, it would stifle innovation and work against the beneficial effects of copyright.Copyrighting allows people to benefit from their labours, but software patents allow the companies with the largest legal departments to benefit from everyone else's work. For the moment, the folly stops at the borders of Europe. An attempt to allow software patenting within the EU was halted last month by a Polish veto, which shows that a post-communist country understands the demands of a market capitalism better than the world's richest capitalist.&#183;Andrew Brown is the author of In the Beginning Was the Worm.feedback@thewormbook.com
I always said that 2004 was one of thefinest gaming year's everand sales seem to back this up. Figuresreleased todayshow that all format sales totalled £1.34 billion in the UK last year, a rise of 6.6% on 2003 (ELSPA). Sales are no barometer of quality mind, but it's good to see those cash-tills ringing even if sales were skewed disproportionately towards a few huge-selling titles. Chief amongst these was GTA: San Andreas, which has sold a mind-boggling 1.75million copies to date. Will 2005 continue the sales rise? New handheld hardware will shift units, but there will be fewer blockbusters this year - no GTA or Half Life games are likely - which may help throw the spotlight on some lesser-selling, but potentially more original, new titles.
Like one ofKotaku's dedicated readers, I also believe thatAAA game prices should be raised, in line with inflation, spiralling budgets and the incredible amount of time and effort it takes to make the games we take for granted.InflationGames have remained the same price since the 1980's, the only high technology item to do so. Yes, the price tag does leave a substantial dent on your wallet, but if you're so concerned you don't have to go out and buy the game the instant it comes out. You can be sensible and wait for the re-release on a lower price point. Furthermore, there are over 700 games released every year, and not all of them go for full price. Explore the other games on the shelves to feed your habit! Support your local indie developer!Spiralling BudgetsNot only have games remained the same price, but the cost of making them has increased at least ten-fold. Games can cost as much as $20m to make, and they're set to go up further as consumer demand hikes expectations. Developers are increasingly hiring in script consultants, Hollywood talent for voice overs and big-name artists in order to make their products stand out in a heavily competitive market. These things cost cash. Big cash. You want 'em? You pay for 'em.Time and EffortThe development time for most AAA titles is an average of 18 months, with a full team of 40 professional, highly-qualified employees. Yes, it's a far cry from the piecemeal products created by lonely brothers in their bedrooms, who did it for fun. They didn't have anything else better to do. They all lived in the Midlands. Modern teams work their little bottom dollars off for your 15-75 hours of in-game time, and you can bet that they're going to start demanding better pay for theridiculous hoursthey're expected to work. As the least compensated in the entertainment medium, and public awareness of this fact on the rise, games industry employees deserve your extra fiver.
Last year, the organisers of the annualGame Developers Conferenceorganised a design challenge for three big industry names - Will Wright (the Sims), Warren Spector (Deus Ex) and Raph Koster (Creative Director at Sony Online Entertainment). The trio were directed to come up with a game concept based around a love story, and then discuss and extend their idea in front of a conference audience. You can find out what happenedhere.The challenge was so popular, it'sreturningfor this year's event, with previous winner, Will Wright, taking on two new competitors. The theme? Well, in the style of Big Brother, GDC has gone evil - the trio are going to have to come up with game design concepts based around... the poetry of prolific nineteenth century loner Emily Dickinson.The idea is to explore the concept of the license - does building a game around a brand unavoidably inhibit creativity? It will be fascinating to see whether the designers can come up with any answers that are as applicable to conversions of brain dead movie blockbusters as they are to the works of one of America's finest poets.As for the logistics of the competition, it's probably up to the competitors whether they base their game around the process of writing poetry (with the player taking on the role of Dickinson, perhaps), or around one of her many works. Considering the latter, Dickinson is not such an outlandish choice for this exercise - her obsession with themes of mortality and human suffering would have bagged her a design role with most major studios if she'd have been born 150 years later.So a quick hot topic: which poem or poet would you like to see a game based around? Personally, I'd go for the metaphysical survival horror of Edgar Allan Poe's The Raven…
One of the more amusing features of CES is PC Magazine's annual effort to find theLast Gadget Standing. Basically it lets companies give a four-minute sales pitch for their gizmo, then the assembled crowd "votes" by screaming and hollering, or not. Gadgets that don't earn enough applause are eliminated, while the ones that score highest on the electronic clapometer survive.This year, the final three came down to Dell'sAxim x50v PocketPC, the Delphi XM portable satellite radio and Mobi TV. Even though the Dell dude didn't get around to demonstrating the device's superfast games performance, the x50v won."CarChip, from Davis Instruments, also won in similar voting on the web site. CarChip plugs into your car and can record your speed, mileage, and many other car features, including engine diagnostics."
I expect Bobbie will be able to pick up a copy of US magazineVAR Business, which seems to be targeting MacWorld with its latest issue. It has a picture of cheeky-looking Steve Jobs on the cover with the headline Bad Apple."Under the leadership of Steve Jobs, Apple's ever-expanding ambitions have put it on a collision course with partners, some of whom have witnessed the demise of their livelihoods. Think they're feeling burned? You bet. Here are their stories," says the blurb for the story,here.It's no secret that Apple's approach is wiping out Apple dealers, who, in the VAR article, complain that they can't get the stock they need to compete, and then Apple undercuts them on price.It also refers to a Web site,TellOnApple.org, which says it was "created by a group of former Apple Authorized Resellers as a means to document and share any unethical or illegal business practices of Apple Computer, Inc."
So, I arrived in San Francisco last night to get ready forMacworldand managed to bring thebad weather with me from London. Still, the hardened Apple fanatics, expo visitors and business schmoozers who are trawling the city's streets aren't letting a little bit of rain get them down.The talk is, of course, about what Apple are launching here - and about the"leaked" informationfrom ThinkSecret which has done the rounds about the possibility of a cheap headless iMac media centre.One site even has what it claims arepictures and videoof the "iHome", although many sceptics have splashed cold water on them as fake.I tend to have an in-built mistrust of all rumours - ever since the dawn of time there's been speculation about an entry-level priced Mac - but this one has certainly got a lot of attention. I still don't get the idea of not having a monitor, though (unless it hooks into your TV).One thing I do know, though, is that St Eve of Jobs' keynote speech on Tuesday is not going to be simulcast on the web -much to the chagrin of many Appleheads. At least that should limit the fainting and instant conversion to the people crowded into the Moscone Center, then.Among the other big rumours are a flash-based iPod with a capacity of 1-2GB and iWork, a home office software suite along the lines of Microsoft Office.There are also plenty of exciting non-Apple products set to debut at the show. And one other thing that's definit is that Apple and Motorola havehooked upto produce an iTunes compatible phone. Apparently it's doing the rounds at CES, but I should be able to get a glimpse of it early in the week.Well, the rain seems to have stopped this morning, so I'm off out to find out more.
There was an interesting comment in Keith'sNine foolish videogame predictions blog. Monty asks why there aren't more "grown-up" games around. "Haruki Murakamihas writen a book about a boy's oedipal quest, so when are we going to get games that reflect the fact that grown-ups play them too?" he says. I think he has a point too.Console gaming at least has some sort of excuse. Costs of development and a slightly younger audience mean creating something leftfield is a massive gamble. But, due to costs and lack of platform holder control, there is more scope for creativity on the PC. Maybe Monty's deeper gaming experience can be found here? Perhaps not. Flicking through the latest issues ofPC Zoneand Gamer, the two main PC games mags, shows a depressingly familiar mix of sci-fi and fantasy.But what does grown-up gaming mean? Point and click adventures? Thought provoking scripts? Or, in fact, gaming that relies more on brain than brawn. Anyone who has played a first-person shooter online knows that caffeine and enthusiasm are no match for teenage reflexes. But that doesn't mean that action games are not for grown-ups. Half Life 2 may have mainly been about shooting everything, but the environs and characters in the world at least gave it some gravitas. After all, great games are great games, regardless of any perceived target age.But overall I think Monty does have a point. We need more games that stimulate emotions rather than the trigger finger. We need better written scripts, ones that veer away from the comic-book and fantasy novel. But this doesn't have to mean labouredFrench point and click adventures. Or Myst.Interaction and how you actually play the game is still key - theZelda games, for example, have a childish look to the them but have a coherence and control that is logical. Then there are strategy games, likeRome: Total War, that literally offer a crash-course in military history.Looking to the future there is the promising lookingDreamfall, the sequel to the excellentLongest Journey, that looks set to offer some thought-provoking gaming. And as the average age of games players continues to rise, the market should follow. More sophisticated and literate gaming will become increasingly relevant and profitable. Don't hold your breath for theSputnik Sweetheartgame though.
It could be a dream come true for nosy neighbours and anyone considering selling their home privately on the internet.A new service allowing people to find out the sale price of every house in England, Scotland and Wales was launched this week by an outfit calledMyHousePrice.comThe company says the service means both normal punters and professionals will be able to easily find out what is really happening to house prices in their local area.It provides online access to the registered sale price of every house sold in the UK (except Northern Ireland) over the last two years - and hopes that soon, people will be able to search back to April 2000. The information is based on data from the official Land Registers.A spokesman says the website is "inexpensive", with a search price of &#163;1 per property (minimum transaction is &#163;2), and adds that discounts are available to customers interested in large numbers of properties.It's a useful facility and the company says it will help sellers pitch their homes at the right price. But the most significant drawback is that the data is a minimum of three months old. Prices in your area may well have moved down (or up) since then.
The pop single is undergoing an unexpected renaissance thanks to the popularity of internet downloads, with figures showing the digital format has overtaken CD and vinyl sales for the first time.The music industry's trade body, the British Phonographic Industry, said yesterday that more digital downloads were sold through sites such as Apple's iTunes Music Store and Napster than on the high street in the last week of 2004.The shift was being seen as good news for the singles chart, which has been ravaged in recent years by the declining appeal of hyped pop acts and the threat of online piracy.Its falling popularity led the BBC last year to move Top of the Pops to BBC2 from a prime-time slot on BBC1 after more than 40 years.Although sales of vinyl and CD singles declined again by 14% to 26.5m last year, more than 5.7m downloads were   sold during the year. Peter Jamieson, the BPI's chairman, said: "We have already announced that downloads will soon be included in the official UK singles chart and had downloads been included in the singles figures for 2004, the market would have shown a 4% increase."Chart compilers are planning to include download sales within the main chart by the middle of the year.In the final week of 2004, more than 312,000 single downloads were sold compared with 282,000 high street sales, marking the first time the digital format has outsold the physical one.The record number of download sales, up by a fifth on the previous best and 22 times bigger than the previous year, was boosted by the number of people receiving digital music players such as the iPod for Christmas."This was an extraordinary week. While many high street stores were closed for the bank holidays, online download   sites are open 24/7. To that extent, you could say it was a blip, but it's an important milestone in the growth of download sales and sign of things to come," said Mr Jamieson.A comparison of the best-selling downloads of the year with the top singles of 2004 also buoyed industry hopes that digital stores are persuading older music fans to re-enter the singles market.U2, Green Day, Gwen Stefani and Maroon5 all featured in the top 10 bestselling downloads while, aside from the Band Aid 20 single, the top 10 physical sales were dominated by pop and dance acts catering for a teenage audience.Sales of U2's Vertigo, the number one download of the year, were boosted by an advertising campaign for the iPod featuring the track.The numbers also confirmed that New York band the Scissor Sisters, who first found success in the UK, produced the best-selling album of 2004.Top 10s of 2004Albums1Scissor Sisters - Scissor Sisters2Keane - Hopes and Fears3Robbie Williams - Greatest Hits4Maroon 5 - Songs About Jane5Katie Melua - Call Off the Search6Anastacia - Anastacia7Usher - Confessions8Norah Jones - Feels Like Home9Snow Patrol - Final Straw10Il Divo - Il DivoDownloads1U2 - Vertigo2Gwen Stefani - What You Waiting For3Destiny's Child - Lose My Breath4Green Day - American Idiot5Band Aid 206Natasha Bedingfield - These Words7Maroon 5 - She Will Be Loved8Eminem - Just Lose It9Kylie - I Believe In You10Christina Aguilera featuring Missy Elliott - CarwashSingles1Band Aid 20 - Do They Know It's Christmas2Eamon - F**k It (I Don't Want You Back)3DJ Casper - Cha Cha Slide4Eric Prydz - Call On Me5Usher - Yeah6Michelle - All This Time7Anastacia - Left Outside Alone8Peter Andre - Mysterious Girl9Britney Spears - Toxic10Frankee - FURB
The award-winning Canadian writer Margaret Atwood has, in her time, dreamt up some spectacular visions of the future. Now, instead of imagining tomorrow's technology in all its gruesome forms - such as the genetically modified monstrosities of her novel Oryx and Crake - she has invented her own device.Atwood is developing a remote book-signing machine that will allow readers to get their novels autographed without the author having to traipse to bookshops across the globe. The idea occurred to her while undertaking gruelling tours with Oryx and Crake last spring."Last time I did a tour in Britain it was pretty horrendous," she said. "This will mean a lot less angst, inconvenience, starvation, sitting in airports and eating out of minibars."Although the invention will obviate the need for Atwood to sally forth from Toronto, it will require a little more input from her than Donald Rumsfeld offered when he used an automated signature writer to autograph letters to relatives of US soldiers killed in Iraq. "The machine replicates exactly what I have written. But I am in Los Angeles and you might be in Brighton," she said.The reader puts their copy of the novel into a book holder, and, at Atwood's touch of a button, an electronically steered pen reproduces the dedication precisely as originally inscribed.Far from estranging author and audience, Atwood said, the machine was "a democratising device" which could help authors who were not stars, and often missed out on signing tours. Her invention could change all that.
Shareholders of Eidos were left disappointed last night after the computer games company quashed speculation that it would be acquired at a premium to yesterday's closing price.During the trading session, Eidos shares had climbed 6p to 86p on rumours that a bid pitched at 95p from an American rival had been agreed and would shortly be announced.However, 15 minutes after the market closed the creator of action heroine Lara Croft dashed those hopes.While discussions with a number of interested parties had continued, Eidos warned shareholders not to expect a fancy price."On the basis of these recent discussions, the likelihood and extent of any premium &#91;to the share price before recent speculative movements&#93; is unclear," it said.
KillzonePS2The Helghast are a race of glowing-eyed, jackbooted future-Nazis who couldn't look more stereotypically evil if they had horns and cloven hooves. Naturally, they slot into the usual Earth invasion/last hope storyline that offers bland excuses to slaughter battalions of them, fitting comfortably with the game's theme of being a painfully MOR victim of its own publicity.   Heralded as PS2's answer to Halo, all the convincingly pre-distressed concrete, character swapping and pretty explosions in the world can't disguise the twitchy controls and unbalanced weapons or compensate for the Helghast's handy but eventually exhausting proneness to suicide charges. Although not as dreadful as Shellshock: 'Nam '67, developer Guerilla's previous abortion of a game, this is deeply uninspired.&#183;Sony, &#163;40Paper Mario: The Thousand Year DoorGamecubeA role-playing game for children, Paper Mario stars Nintendo's flattened 2D mascot. The game's capacity to exploit Mario's lack of a third dimension by letting you fold him into a paper plane to fly over obstacles (while steering admirably clear of paper's other well known capacity to make excellent firelighters) is one example of the playful inventiveness evident throughout. From the deceptively complex turn-based fights with added audience interaction, to the characters' gently sassy humour, Thousand Year Door is a world away from most of the twaddle peddled as children's software.&#183;Nintendo, &#163;40Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon 2PS2, XBOXTo those who've never read a Tom Clancy and missed the game's posters featuring pictures of marines, Ghost Recon 2 might sound slightly spooky. Sadly, anyone looking forward to ghostbusting action will be disappointed: this is once again about American soldiers shooting people. Issuing simple commands to your team, your job is to fight through a series of engagements in near-future North Korea without getting shot to pieces; a task made far harder by the realistic risk of being killed by a single well-aimed bullet. Provided you don't mind repeatedly replaying each encounter like some militaristic OCD sufferer until you somehow manage to survive, there are thrills to be had from its very lightly tactical gunslinging.&#183;Ubisoft, &#163;40
Everybody loves a bad Beatles cover version, and there are dozens of them ataprilwinchell.com/multimedia(including Robin Williams attempting Come Together - rightly described on the site as "a crime against humanity").If you're looking for something even less tasteful, there's always the Accordion Beatles (fab-4.com). More John, Paul, George and Ringo oddities can be found atbeatlesagain.com, which specialises in conspiracy theories, and the wonderful Beatles Domain (psycho-jello.com/beatles), which hosts a colouring book and some real letters to the band from the early 1960s ("Dear Ringo, What did you do before you were a Beatle? Were you an ordinary person?").Finally, if you want to watch Japanese tourists having their photo taken on the Abbey Road zebra crossing, visitabbeyroad.co.uk/virtual_visit.
NXT, which licenses the knowhow to make wafer-thin loudspeakers, announced its first deal with a mobile phone operator yesterday sending its stock price soaring.The Huntingdon-based company said NTT DoCoMo, Japan's largest mobile phone company, will launch the first mobile phone using NXT's flat panel screen, which is also a loudspeaker.Shares in NXT, which lost half their value last year as investors lost faith in the company's ability to do a deal, shot 31p higher to close at 77.5p, valuing the firm at &#163;69.4mNXT spent a long time putting in place licensing agreements with component manufacturers and handset developers interested in using its SoundVu technology.NXT's finance director Peter Thoms said: "What's positive about this is it is an endorsement from an operator as opposed to a handset manufacturer. The operators are closer to the customer and know what customers really want."
Kermit the frog sang that it's not easy being green - but perhaps he should consult Meg Whitman, the chief executive of the largest online auction house, eBay.Ms Whitman has just announced an initiative that will not only help consumers to be greener, but should also increase the flow of greenbacks into eBay's bank account.The initiative, called Rethink, is designed to encourage users to recycle old PCs and electronics equipment by selling them on eBay (for which the auction house collects fees), by donating them to charity, or by disposing of them in an environmentally friendly way.Ms Whitman launched Rethink at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas yesterday, when the Intel boss, Craig Barrett, invited her on stage during his keynote speech. For a decade, Intel has been trying to make electronics products more environmentally friendly, and is Rethink's leading backer.The campaign is also supported by Apple, Gateway, Hewlett-Packard and IBM, along with the US Environmental Protection Agency and the Silicon Valley Toxics Coalition.According to eBay'sRethinkwebsite, more than 400m computers will be replaced during the next three years. It also says more than 75% of all computers ever sold remain stockpiled in our garages, office storage rooms and warehouses. Researchers estimate that, in the US, computers are being discarded at a rate of 133,000 per day,At a press conference at CES, Ms Whitman said she wanted the electronics industry to develop "market-based solutions" to the recycling problem, "so we won't have to face federal and state regulation".However, from the start of this year, consumers in California have to pay a fee to dispose of some items - including monitors and notebook computers - under the Electronic Waste Recycling Act of 2003.Many other companies are concerned about the problem, and the Consumer Electronics Show is holding a conference session on "green gadgets" tomorrow.The situation is acute in the USA, where the Consumer Electronics Association - which organises CES - estimates that factory sales of electronics products will this year reach $125.7bn (&#163;66.8bn), up from around $113.5bn in 2004.According to CEA surveys, 98% of US households now have TV sets, 88% have VCRs, 75% have DVD players, and 70% have personal computers.Dan Ness, an analyst with the market research firm MetaFacts, says only 3.6% of home PCs (less than one in 30) were recycled last year, while more than twice as many (one in 11, or 8.6%) were thrown out. "This represents mountains of e-waste and toxic chemicals," he said.At the moment, the Rethink initiative is limited to the US market. However, if it is successful, Whitman says eBay will consider taking the idea abroad.
Ah, it's Friday. Another weekend looms.No doubt, some of us will be travelling to see friends and family around the country (and around the globe). Thank goodness, then, for the government'sTransport Directportal - a one stop shop for travel news, information and alternative journey plans.(Michael Cross put it through its pacesback in July)Or at least it was meant to be. These days it seems to have chucked in its remit of warning drivers of problems and persuading them to think of alternatives - and seems a lot more like a general travel portal.Anyone have any thoughts or experiences that they'd like to share about this?
Over the last few days, I've been inundated with emails imploring me to help find out who this child - a victim of the tsunami - is. You might have got a similar email.In fact, his identity wasunravelled- probably before the emails even started circulating. His name is Hannes Bergstrom, and he's from Sweden - and has now, thankfully, been reunited with his family.It's great human interest story that shows two interesting things about the web: that it's great for getting information distributed (and these kind of instances must surely be some of the most worthwhile uses of wideband communications) but also that it's quite hard to retract that information once it's sent out.This photo wasn't incorrect, and it wasn't an urban myth - but the problem has been solved. The answer just hasn't caught up with the question yet.
Top Sony bossKen Kutaragiannounced onWednesdayat the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas that their forthcoming handheld, thePSP, will be released in Europe and the US in March.How convenient; this ties in nicely with theNintendo DS' launch on these shores, three agonisingly long months after the US release of the touch-screen games console.Call me a cynic, but something tells me that Sony have had their foundations shaken recently, with the surprisingly intense selling spree of the DS in both the US and Japan, and the PlayStation 2's second place stance to Xbox console sales in the last four months of 2004. They may be trying to reassert their prominence, by taking the wind out of the deserving Nintendo sales (sails).
The consumer electronics industry is looking forward to five years of impressive growth as consumers replace their analogue cameras, video recorders, music players, radios and other devices with digital versions, and also invest in new flat-screen TV sets, according to the US Consumer Electronics Association (CEA), which is holding its annual trade show in Las Vegas this week.It could also be good news for Microsoft, which has spent the past decade trying to position itself to provide the software and copyright protection systems that will enable all the various digital devices to share music and movies and work together.Bill Gates, Microsoft's co-founder and chairman, gave the Consumer Electronics Show's opening keynote speech in the packed Las Vegas Hilton on Wednesday night, and showed off some of the possibilities. For example, snapshots taken with a Nikon D2X digital camera were beamed wirelessly and automatically to a photo album on a Windows Media Centre PC, from where they could be   browsed using a Windows Mobile smart phone. The same phone could be used to set the Media Centre to record a TV programme, which could then be transferred to a Portable Media Centre (PMC) - a small portable video player - beamed wirelessly to another television in the house, or burned to DVD.Mr Gates announced a deal with MTV Networks, which will target content from its MTV, VH1, CMT country music and Comedy Central channels at consumers with Media Centre PCs and PMCs.MTV is also planning an MTVN online digital music service that will use Microsoft's Plays For Sure system. Plays For Sure guarantees compatibility between online music services using Windows Media Audio - including Napster, Wal-Mart and Microsoft's own MSN Music - and more than 50 portable music players.Presumably, MTV will participate in Microsoft's forthcoming MSN Video Downloads online service, which will provide content for PMCs and Windows Mobile devices, including PDAs and smart phones. Other content providers include CNBC, Fox Sports, and iFilm Corporation.Traditionally, consumer electronics companies have viewed Microsoft with some fear and possibly loathing, but that may be changing. In his introduction, Gary Shapiro, the CEA's president and chief executive, said Mr Gates was "the symbol to me of what's right in this era" and noted that he had been voted the country's most admired businessman.Also, while Microsoft has struggled for any success outside the PC market, Mr Gates said its phones were now supported by 61 operators in 28 countries, and a growing number of suppliers were adopting its television system, including the newly announced SBC Communications and Bell South. The Seattle-based company has also enjoyed some success with its Xbox games console, especially with its recent smash hit Halo 2.But there was nothing triumphalist about Mr Gates's presentation in Las Vegas, which was done in the style of a "Not so Late Night with Conan O'Brien". Mr Gates, dressed in a pullover and slacks, was ribbed mercilessly by the acerbic chatshow presenter, especially when many of Microsoft's demos failed to work.Mr Gates was also upstaged by SBC's Lea Ann Champion, who put on a stunning demonstration of its high-definition TV service based on Microsoft's IPTV (Internet Protocol television) system, and who couldn't resist pointing out that all her demos had worked.Microsoft does have new technologies that Mr Gates could have shown, including the next generation of its Windows Mobile smart phone software, and the eagerly awaited Xbox Next. But instead, Mr Gates highlighted Nikon cameras and iRiver music players, an Audiovox SMT5600 Smartphone, LG's new DVD recorder, Fossil and Swatch smart watches and Alienware's Media Centre PC.This is probably not a sign of a modest new Microsoft. It signals a tacit acceptance that consumers will buy a cool product for what it does, often without knowing or caring what software it uses.It also shows the extent to which Microsoft has already outflanked the EU's attempt to limit its power by forcing it to offer a version of Windows without Media Player. Such a PC could be bought by people who already have Windows Media Players in their portable music and video players, mobile phones, PDAs, set-top boxes, games consoles, TVs or cars.As Mr Gates has always been ready to explain, he isn't really about building products but building a self-sustaining digital ecosystem. It's far from certain that Microsoft will win, especially if consumers revolt against its draconian Hollywood-friendly copyright control or "digital rights management". But this week's trade show suggests the long-promised pieces are falling in to place, and that he has a chance of pulling it off.
At first glance, the combination of Leonardo da Vinci, sign language and dancing badgers may seem like the plot of a Dan Brown novel gone awry. But they now have a lot more in common, thanks to the internet search engine Yahoo!, which yesterday announced its pick of the year's best websites.The company's picks for 2004 include an online tour of London's abandoned buildings, a gorilla who can speak sign language and the site of the surreal comedian Bill Bailey, with a section on his beard.A panel of judges sifted through hundreds of nominees to come up with 10 finalists. Salim Mitha, director of Yahoo Search UK and Europe, said the range of winners showed the internet was continuing to grow. "It's about identifying the original things that you can find: sites that not everyone knows about, but should."The victor in the entertainment category was weebls-stuff.com, featuring cult animations of eggs, pies and badgers by Jonti Picking. Since starting his site five years ago, Mr Picking has landed lucrative advertising work. "It's nice to be recognised every now and again - I never imagined I'd win anything."Other winners include Your Amazing Brain, which offers games to demonstrate the capabilities of the mind, and Timebank, which provides volunteering opportunities. Ugliest Cars in Britain showcases vehicles such as the Citroen 2CV, "modelled on a boating accident that occurred in Cherbourg in 1923".On Russell Davies's site, eggbaconchipsandbeans.com, he says all he wants is for other people to join him in taking photos of traditional cafes."Most of the books on classic cafes focus on London, but there are great places in   Aberystwyth, Uttoxeter and Cromer. It would be great if other people could join in and say, 'There's this great place in Macclesfield ... '"The animator Joel Veitch, who won a contract with Channel 4 after getting a Yahoo award for rathergood.com two years ago, said the prize was well worth having."It's certainly better than a lot of the industry awards that take themselves too seriously."One of the best things, career-wise, is being able to have people call you 'our award-winning director'."Mr Davies said he would like the chance to turn his obsession with cafes into something more tangible, but his heart was still set on sharing his hobby on the internet."If someone offered me a book deal obviously I'd bite their hands off, but I'd like to do something about the places with funny day-glo stars and idiosyncratic spelling."Web users have until January 17 to vote for their favourite site of the 10.Previous winners include Eddie Izzard and Aardman Animations, the Oscar-winning animation studio behind Wallace and Gromit.
At the height of the post-tsunami donation wave last week, the computer servers at the Disasters Emergency Committee (DEC) were pulling in donations of more than a million pounds an hour."The immediacy of online giving is what attracts the public - they see something in the media, go online and donate and it makes them feel like they've done something to help there and then," says Will Slater, a British Red Cross press officer drafted in to help the DEC.The DEC is an agreement between the top British humanitarian relief charities to work closely with one another and the media to streamline fundraising efforts during extreme crises. And for the Asian tsunami it has worked like never before.Blanket media coverage during the Christmas news lull helped the appeal pull in more than half a million online donations totalling more than £30m  - dwarfing last year's Darfur appeal which generated just £2m from the web.Statistics from online consultancy Hitwise show that traffic to charity websites rose five-fold during the first few days after the tsunami, and the DEC website accounted for an astonishing 48% of total charity site traffic.Christian Aid, one of the most creative charities when it comes to using the web, raised more than £700,000 online in the nine days following the tsunami - nearly four times as much as it took in credit card donations over the phone - but it did so by keeping things very simple."A lot of Christian Aid supporters donated spontaneously - they already know us and our online donation page so we concentrated on providing news and updates from staff and partners in the affected areas which is what people want," says online PR officer Kati Dshedshorov.It could be argued that the sheer scale of the emergency and the media coverage were bound to increase online donations. But while the tsunami has set online donation records that aren't likely to be beaten for a while, there are signs that major charities and other interested groups are beginning to understand how to exploit the power of the web as a key fundraising channel.The DEC, for example, includes in its rapid response team two agencies - Tango Zebra and Joshua Interactive - whose brief is to design and place banner advertisements on popular consumer sites in a bid to increase awareness of the appeal. AOL UK is one of the sites featuring a DEC banner.In the States, UPS, the parcel delivery service, has teamed up with eBay to produceauctiondrop.com- a scheme under which unwanted consumer electronics goods can be dropped of at a UPS store for auctioning on eBay with the proceeds going to Care's earthquake and tsunami relief and rehabilitation fund.Charities are also attracted by the economics of e-fundraising: they're finding it's faster and cheaper than conventional fundraising. "What makes online giving really valuable is that we get the money straight away and we don't have to spend time transcribing phone calls or opening envelopes," says DEC's Will Slater.However, as with anything concerning the web, there is a darker side. Hoaxers are posing as tsunami victims on the internet in a bid to divert funds flowing to relief victims, according to security experts. They warn it's only a question of time before we see spoof versions of well-known charity websites.British charity Action Against Hunger UK warned on Thursday that it was the subject of a hoax email requesting contributions to Action Against Hunger Netherlands - a non-existent branch.It's a back-handed compliment, but you know when you've arrived when the scam artists start mimicking your methods.&#183;Mark Jones is Editor of ReutersAlertNet- the humanitarian crisis news portal run by Reuters Foundation
"The beta, which isavailable for downloadon the company's Web site, was built using technology Microsoft gained through its December acquisition of Giant Software, which specialized in spyware-fighting tools. Microsoft said that in addition to loading the software with the capability to combat many known strains of spyware, the company will continue to research emerging forms of spyware and to offer automatic updates to the product to fight new threats," reportsCNet."Microsoft executives said the company has not decided yet whether the anti-spyware package will launch as a stand-alone item or as part of one of its Windows products. They also indicated that there is no set time frame for the package's official release."
There are now about 4,523,978 people at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, and roughly 7.2% of those have bumped into me or stood on my foot, though only one has actually fallen on top of me. OK, slight exaggeration. The show organisers are apparently expecting only about 130,000 visitors, but it feels as though most of them turned up around at lunchtime today, instead of spreading themselves through the week.I did bump into -- figuratively speaking -- quite a few interesting people, including Ben and Mena Trott ofSix Apartfame. Apparently Mena is going to be on the front cover of Fortune magazine, which is a fantastic accolade for what started as a humble blogging outfit.I also had a brief conversation with former Apple CEO John Sculley, who was wearing a badge that did not divulge his real name. It was brief because I was on the down escalator and he was on the up escalator to the monorail.But I confess I skipped what could have been a once-in-a-lunchtime chance: the autograph session with the Dallas Cowboys cheerleaders.
Is blogging here for the long haul?New things on the internet often stop being noticed, although they're still there. For example, if you remember PointCast and Push, it's now back again as RSS. All these things kind of settle in and people will realise that blogging is simply another means of people expressing themselves. You can use blogs for advertising, self-promotion or corporate stuff, and once they lose that fascination that new things have then people start figuring out what they're most useful for - then they take their rightful place.So are we becoming the media as Dan Gillmor suggests?I think Dan Gillmor (http://dangillmor.typepad.com) overstates it, but the basic notion is right. There are a lot of blogs that follow the industry and part of the problem of the blogosphere is that it's very self-referential... it's great that people can talk about one another, but sometimes they never go outside that circle and that's a problem. I'm more of a hunter-gatherer for information. The blog that sings to me at the moment is by Chris Locke (www.corante.com/adhominem), who is unique.Why did you start Release 1.0?Well, I didn't actually start it as I bought it from Ben Rosen in 1983. Ben left Morgan Stanley a few years earlier to start Rosen Research. He produced the Rosen Electronics Letter and decided that he had a conflict of interest and needed someone else to write the   newsletter. He initially asked me in 1981 and I said no, but a year on I called him and two weeks later I was editing the newsletter, which I changed the name of to Release 1.0.What's your take on Google's digitisation of university research libraries?I think it's cool, although there's now the Google backlash developing. I think the market is going to do a reasonably good job of regulating them. I think it's great that they're making stuff available and they're not exercising arbitrary control. I'm glad other people are jumping in too, which is what should be happening.Is this free access to information what the net should be about?Here's the problem: if you own copyrighted material, then there's more and more stuff competing with you that's free. So even if you control your own   content, you can't control other people's... that's the thing that scares a lot of people - that they're going to be competing with all this free stuff. Let's face it, Shakespeare's public domain, god bless him!Do you think micro-payments are one way around spam?I think it makes sense to start charging for email, as you're using resources when you send email and the people using the resources should pay for them - otherwise they're imposing costs on everybody else. There are ways to do it that don't wipe out the little guy. In the meantime we're getting better at authenticating where the mail comes from and getting better spam filters - but in the end charging makes sense.Visit:www.edventure.comEsther Dyson's favouriteswww.flickr.comhttp://news.com.comwww.linkedin.comwww.gmail.comwww.orbitz.comwww.nytimes.com
Predicting the future is a ridiculous endeavour, especially when it comes to the fast-moving and hopelessly chaotic videogame industry. But I've never let ridicule get in my way before, so here are a few important themes and events I think we'll witness over the coming 12 months. I've steered away from such headers as 'the hot games of 2005!', or 'PSP vs NS: who will win?!' - you'll find unimaginative hokum like this in any videogame mag you glance at in January. At the same time, there's plenty of interesting stuff that I've completely over-looked. Have a read and feel free to add your own insight at the end.EA aggression continuesThe furore surrounding EA's Ubi Soft 'investment' has been one of the most compelling industry stories for quite some time – especially now that Infogrames boss Bruno Bonnell hasstepped into the fray, apparently pledging to help protect his European rival. Some envisage a kind of Rebel Alliance-style fightback against the EA empire, with smaller publishers and developers finally turning on their greedy master. Rubbish. EA will continue to swallow up great chunks of the industry, because it is the only videogame company with the genuine power, global reach and business ferocity of a modern megacorp. Did the British motor industry turn on its powerful European suitors? Did American consumer electronics companies band together to fight the rise of Matsushita during the sixties? In word, no.If EA is to come unstuck this year, the problems will arise from within. And that process could well be beginning. Recent license decisions (Catwoman and the Bond "tie-in" Goldeneye) have been decidedly dodgy, while the internal wranglings over alleged bad working practices are not only a minor PR disaster, they could turn tolitigation. Competition to usurp EA as king of the industry may come from Activision or even Take Two (getting cockier by the minute thanks to GTA).More woe for British publishersEidos has been on shaky ground since Lara Croft's spectacular fall from grace and, judging by a recentpress release, the company will probably be sold this year if a suitable candidate can be found. Recent successes such as Shellshock: Nam '67 and Hitman Contacts, together with potential high earners like Project Snowblind and Championship Manager 5 will certainly make the publisher more appetising. Capcom is rumoured to be interested, although a management buy-out is also on the cards. Meanwhile, a few industry doom mongers have now turned their beady eyes toward Codemasters...The rise of the indie sceneThe dominance of EA doesn't necessarily mean the death of smallscale videogame production. Far from it. Independent developers who distribute their wares via download sites will find that the combination of exploding broadband use and consumer alienation with asinine sequels, licenses and entrenched genres, will provide them with a growing audience. Check out sites likeDIYgamesandMadMonkeyfor more info. This year may well see the first genuine breakthrough indie hit, perhaps something likeZapfromGarageGames, a vector-based multiplayer shooter melding iconic eighties visuals with modern gameplay depth. All that's required is a little canny word of mouth marketing. And an astonishing game, of course.Human animation finally looks convincingPeople still don't move properly in videogames. They look awkward, they interact badly with objects, they can't fall over very well. Videogame animators have traditionally had two options when working on human movement: go with motion capture, which looks realistic but means the character can't respond to emergent gameplay factors, like running into a wall; or go with a physics-based procedural animation system, that can adapt to terrain on the fly, but looks jerky and unnatural. A new animation system named Endorphin developed byNaturalMotion, however, promises to deliver convincing human movement that reacts in real-time to game events – like being shot, punched, or rolling down some stairs. Tekken 5 and Getaway: Black Monday both use the system and next year we should see developers really beginning to exploit Endorphin for convincing human interaction. This should come in handy for…The dating games goes globalThe success of The Sims and the emergence of more risqué titles like Singles, Playboy: The Mansion and Leisure Suit Larry: Magna Cum Laude, suggests there is a growing market for games based around relationships, and even sex. This trend is set to continue throughout 2005, via games like Sega's bizarre Project Rub (Feel the Magicin the US) where you use the Nintendo DS touch screen to fondle a virtual girlfriend, and Ubi Soft'sSprungin which you complete against other singletons for love in a trendy ski resort. Is this the year publishers finally drop their prudish fear of sexuality and give us the first interactive videogame shag?War games diversify and specialiseThe war-based FPS is now a densely overcrowded genre where setting is often the only defining element between competing games. Now, however, publishers are realising that simply re-producing the Medal of Honor or Rainbow Six gameplay in different environments is not going to pull in the punters. Hence, we're beginning to see a lot more specialisation. Last year's Sniper Scope, for example, focused on the role of the sharp shooter during WWII introducing the concept of 'Bullet trajectory degradation'. In February, we'll see the release of Pandemic Studios' Mercenaries which focuses on the role of the soldier for hire in modern conflict, operating on the moral edge, buying their own weapons and nicking vehicles.Right now, developers will be researching even more esoteric operatives from conflicts around the world, looking for that unique selling point to differentiate their product from the pack. Perhaps we'll see a Psy-Ops title with players engaging in an information war. Designers may even be influenced by the South Asian tsunami, resulting in a new kind of squad-based challenge centred around disaster aid or other UN operations.Shop while you gameA complex economic synergy between real and virtual worlds has been developing for several years. In-game advertising is so common there are now agencies specialising in arranging deals between game publishers and potential advertisers. And we've all read about EverQuest veterans selling items and characters on Ebay. The obvious next step is to combine gaming and ecommerce, allowing players to buy in-game objects for real cash. This could involve virtual items of use within the game itself - for example, forking out a quid for a fresh ammo clip. There are already plenty of examples - the 3G mobile phone dating game V-Girl, developed by Hong Kong companyArtificial Life, allows users to buy gifts for their virtual date with real cash.Alternatively, we should soon be making real world purchases, directly from ads and product placements littered throughout a game environment. In the next GTA, for example, your character could wander into Pizza Hut and order a large deep pan margherita, instigating a seamless broadband connection to the company's home delivery website. 30 minutes later, the gamers' snack of choice turns up on your doorstep.Games turn into movies, and vice versaThe interplay between movies and their videogame conversions will become more devious throughout 2005. We've already seen games like Lord of the Rings: Battle For Middle Earth and Robots using CGI imagery created for the original films, and of course, titles like Enter the Matrix and Star Wars Republic Commando are set between movie sequels, filling in plot holes and contributing to a kind of multimedia narrative arc. (In return, several recent movie DVDs, including King Arthur and the Star Wars Trilogy box set, have featured demos of their tie-in videogames.) This practice will evolve until we see game conversions that direct players to specific points in the movie for hidden clues, or DVD movie extras that can only be discovered by achieving sufficient progress in the game. The Holy Grail will surely be an animated movie that, on its DVD release doubles as a game, allowing viewers to stop the action at key points and join in. Dragon's Lair re-imagined by Pixar…Are we playing or talking?The lines between socialising and gaming will become increasinlgy blurred throughout 2005. MMORPGs have always been almost as much about meeting people as completing traditional gaming objectives, but those relationships are usually bound within the game environment. Bluetooth mobile phone gaming and the wireless LANs offered by the PSP and the DS will give rise to a new form of gaming where ad hoc social gatherings emerge in the midst of pubs, waiting rooms, or whereever two or more players are present. Similarly,PictoChatcombines the concepts of chatroom, text message and interactive art toy to produce a new kind of communication game. I expect we'll see a wireless LAN version ofHabboHotelfor the next gen handhelds, inviting gamers to meet and chat in virtual environment before meeting and chatting in real-life. Sadly, I can't predict whether this is really sad or not.
Remember whenApple said they were going to sueThinksecretfor publishing leaked rumours about products?They've gone ahead and done it. FromSilicon.com:The suit, filed in the Superior Court of Santa Clara County, California, aims to identify who is leaking the information and to get an injunction preventing further release of trade secrets. However, specific mention of "trade secrets" appears to indicate that at least parts of those reports are spot on.Apple said in a statement that the company's "DNA is innovation, and the protection of our trade secrets is crucial to our success"."Apple has filed a civil complaint against the owner of ThinkSecret.com and unnamed individuals who we believe stole Apple's trade secrets," Apple said in its statement. "We believe that Think Secret solicited information about unreleased Apple products from these individuals, who violated their confidentiality agreements with Apple by providing details that were later posted on the internet."Doesn't sound very fair to me to take TS - which is, after all, a media outlet - to task for an employee's decision to break their confidentiality agreements.Dan Gillmoragrees:Apple claims that it's not trying to suppress free speech. Bull. That's precisely what the company is doing here, well beyond keeping internal secrets.I'm fairly sure of this: If the party leaking information to Think Secret had sent it, say, to the San Jose Mercury News or New York Times, and had those publications run the news, Apple wouldn't be suing them. Both have deep enough pockets to defend themselves.Keeping things under wraps is one thing - but if Apple insist on shooting the messenger, then they're going to find it an impossible struggle to justify why.
Jack's filed his dispatch on Gates' keynote speech at CES -and you can read the whole thing here.It was a laugh a minute in the Las Vegas Hilton last night when Microsoft chairman and chief software architect Bill Gates gave his seventh annual keynote speech to open the giant Consumer Electronics Show (CES). But perhaps it was more fun for the audience than for the software mogul they had queued hours to see.The surprise presentation cast Gates as the guest in a version of the popular US chat show, this time retitled Not So Late Night with Conan O'Brien, and true to form, the acerbic comic scored some notable hits.
It was a laugh a minute in the Las Vegas Hilton last night whenMicrosoftchairman and chief software architect Bill Gates gave his seventh annual keynote speech to open the giantConsumer Electronics Show (CES). But perhaps it was more fun for the audience than for the software mogul they had queued hours to see. The surprise presentation cast Gates as the guest in a version of the popular US chat show, this time retitled Not So Late Night with Conan O'Brien, and true to form, the acerbic comic scored some notable hits.Even funnier for the hi-tech audience, several of the Microsoft demos failed, and anXboxgame crashed to an infamous Blue Screen of Death with an out of memory error. While watching one photo series fail to appear on aMedia Center PC, O'Brien quipped: "OK, and right now nine people are being fired, remotely."He didn't spare the overwhelmingly male audience, either. The companies that supply consumer gadgets are well aware that they have to broaden their appeal, and looking at the packed auditorium, O'Brien conceded their products were "not just for geeks. They're for nerds and dweebs as well." He said he'd seen more women at Elton John's bachelor party.Nonetheless, Gates and his guest presenters did manage to show off an impressive range of products that used some Microsoft technologies or software. These included digital cameras, portable music players, portable video players (ie Portable Media Centers, or PMCs), flat TV screens, DVD recorders, smart phones, and smart watches.In one successful demo, O'Brien took some photos of Gates with a Nikon D2X digital camera, and these were beamed seamlessly, wirelessly and automatically to a photo album on a Windows Media Center PC. Later, someone showed how the same photos could be browsed remotely using a Windows Mobile smart phone.Best of all, Lea Ann Champion from SBC - a US phone company that has just adopted Microsoft's IPTV (Internet Protocol television) system - gave a stunning demonstration of high-definition TV (HDTV), switching instantly between four "streams" or channels. Even when reproduced on the big cinema backdrop, the images looked terrific.Ms Champion also showed how consumers could use a Windows smart phone to set the Media Center PC to record a TV programme while they were out. And as she couldn't resist pointing out, all her demos worked.It was, nonetheless, a coup for Microsoft to have SBC give such a ringing testimonial for IPTV, which is also being trialled by Bell South and others. Microsoft has spent a dozen years doing miserably in the TV and set-top box markets, and must be relieved to be making some progress.Another coup was the announcement of a deal with MTV Networks, which will target content from its MTV, VH1, CMT country music and Comedy Central channels at consumers with Media Center PCs and PMCs. MTV is also launching MTVN, an online digital music service that will use Microsoft'sPlays For Suresystem. Plays For Sure guarantees compatibility between online music services using Windows Media Audio - including Napster, Wal-Mart and Microsoft's own MSN Music - and more than 50 portable music players.MTV is also expected to participate in Microsoft's forthcoming MSN Video Downloads online service, which will provide content for PMCs and Windows Mobile devices, including PDAs and smart phones. Other content providers include CNBC, Fox Sports, and iFilm Corporation.At the end, Gates could have gone out with a bang by previewing the eagerly awaited Xbox Next. This next-generation games console is expected to build on the huge success of the Halo 2 game and the growing popularity of the Xbox Live service.But it was not to be. Instead, we were given a demo of an unfinished motor racing game, Forza Motor Sport, from Microsoft Game Studios. It looked horrible and crashed spectacularly.Gates and O'Brien tried the game. Gates duly cruised off in his Ferrari while O'Brien kept crashing into walls in his crummy old Buick. Of course, the same thing would have happened, and been even more embarrassing, if the cars had been the other way around.But win or lose, Microsoft has clearly made some progress in trying to overcome the mistrust it has faced from many companies in the consumer electronics industry, whether suppliers of devices, content or services, by offering what Gates called "a platform for partner innovation".  In other words, getting these companies to buy into its digital lifestyle platform.Thanks to these partnerships, the seamless digital experience -- where consumers can move content around between various devices -- that Gates has promised in previous CES keynotes is finally starting to become a reality. Which is nice. But it doesn't actually mean anything unless consumers start to buy the various devices.And with plenty of rival offerings on the market from companies who are not partners but enemies - such as Apple, Nokia and Sony - real success still looks a very long way away.
Applause, please, forCrazy Joe. The clever guy set up a way for players of the Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing Game Ultima Online to donate in-game currency to benefit victims of the Asian Tsunami by offering to give all proceeds from eBay currency auctions to the Red Cross. He started it all off by giving$3K of his own cashto the treasure chest. That's pretty sweet.Essentially, Joe has asked players to give him their platinum pieces, which he holds in a special account. Like othervirtual traders, he then puts the currency on auction via eBay, and the winners get the goodies, while Joe gives the cash to the International Response Fund. This isn't the first in-game charitable action (according toTerra Nova), but it's a recognisable act of kindness.However, eBay have turned Scrooge and have removed all of Joe's in-game currency auctions from their site, claiming they havestrict policiesregarding charitable fundraising activities. I expect they also have policies regarding not irking certain game publishers too.Bah humbug.
It's the same every year. As soon as the festivities are over and the dreaded hangover of too many New Year's Eve drinks has been squeezed out, millions of us stare blankly at a list of traditional new year's resolutions.In fact, the only real tradition of these annual promises is that they are unlikely to be kept. Usually they rotate between a favoured few, including hardy perennials such as "lose weight" and one that pops up with alarming regularity: "be more organised".In an age of round-the-clock communications, high-speed internet access and information overload, it should be easy to bring order to our chaotic lives. We are told that we are hyper-efficient superconsumers, ready to use technology to make the most of our time-poor environment.That's rarely the case. Until recently, anyone subscribing to this ethos would need to use their paper diary with feverish enterprise or swap it for a PDA and a complicated selection of software solutions. The choice for organisation junkies was clear: pick between, say, a classic Moleskine paper diary or a swish piece of silicon.Things are changing fast, however. Many web-based services are now combining with widespread internet access, meaning it could be time to ditch that cumbersome paper diary or PDA and go online. And a good thing too - for those of us increasingly living our lives through computers and telephones, it makes sense to digitise the tools of organisation as simply as possible.Instead of trying to update and synchronise information across a handful of systems - such as a desktop PC, laptop, PDA and smartphone - the burden of storage can now move away from the devices themselves. As broadband penetration increases, you can focus on keeping your information in a single, centrally accessible point: the internet.The great value of these services is that they are available from any internet-enabled device, anywhere in the world. Until recently, patchy access to the internet has prevented true accessibility, but now the increasing ubiquity of Wi-Fi hotspots - combined with superb 3G data cards such as Vodafone's - mean even laptop users no longer have to wonder whether they'll get web access.Smartphones, too, are really beginning to improve their game in the race to replace PDAs. The new BlackBerry, for example, has a much more user-focused calendar, which you can automatically synchronise with your desktop - a great improvement on the clunky interfaces of days gone by.Going online also makes it easier for other people to see, and even edit, what you've put in your diary. But before deciding which system to opt for, you should ask yourself a few fundamental questions. Who needs to be able to read it? Who needs to be able to edit it? What devices will you need to read it on? Some of us only want to keep information for personal use, but others will want to share diary information with colleagues, friends or family.Whatever your needs, Yahoo! (www.yahoo.com) puts forward a versatile and simple offering for anyone who signs up to one of their free email accounts. Not only do you get 250MB of storage for your email, but you also get an address book, calendar and notepad. The address book can draw names from your email database and has a useful range of   options for sharing your calendar information, with the choice of making it public or giving viewing and editing powers to specific "friends".The problem here, as with most proprietorial packages, is that "friends" must have a Yahoo! ID and sign in whenever they want to see or edit information. A similar service is offered by AOL, (www.aol.com), while Google's powerful Gmail (www.gmail.com) is still in beta test mode and does not offer any kind of calendar or diary.Microsoft has expanded its range of services recently (www.msn.com) and now offers a similar package to Yahoo!. Those signing up to Hotmail also get a simple calendar and contacts book, and the basic mailbox size is 250MB. Like Yahoo!, viewers must be signed into MSN, or at least have a Microsoft Passport. It does not, however, allow you to give editing privileges to anyone else, so it is not an option for those needing a collaborative calendar.The alternative to this is an extra layer of complexity with MSN Spaces, Microsoft's entry-level weblog offering. Spaces integrates with Hotmail and MSN Messenger to let you manage who can see your blog and post to your site directly from Messenger. Although it is currently quite limited, the Spaces package does allow you to add more information in a structured way.The weakness of using an MSN-based system is that Hotmail's free accounts are de-activated after 30 days of inactivity. This means all messages, folders and contacts are deleted. Imagine going on an extended holiday or sabbatical - or, perhaps, being incapacitated - only to find your entire attempt at online organisation had disappeared while you were away.This seems especially bad when you consider that Hotmail's free service, unlike most of its rivals, does not support POP3, so you cannot even download your email   on to your computer to keep it safe. The only way to make your account safe is to pay the &#163;15 annual subscription to Hotmail Plus.Those wanting to adopt a more ad hoc approach could try a free online calendar. Localendar (www.localendar.com) is a good-looking, customisable piece of software aimed primarily at collaborative editing for interest groups. The service offered by Calendars.net (www.calendars.net) does not look quite as good, but is compatible with iCal, allowing you to edit offline and then upload the changes.One of the most popular software options is SmartCal (www.smartcal.com), which is intended to be integrated into an existing website but can also be used as a standalone package. The secret of choosing one of the smaller calendar products is to try a few and see which one matches your needs most. There are extensive lists of options at both    Google (http://masl.to/?M2A12562A) and Yahoo! (http://masl.to/?U5B12262A).If you want to use your online calendar for sharing ideas and information as well as diary data, you may even want to consider using a weblog or wiki. Among the major blogging tools - and apart from MSN Spaces - Typepad (www.typepad.com) is the most straightforward to use, although it does require a subscription. Also, sites can easily be password-protected if you want to keep the content confidential, a tool that its free rival Blogger (www.blogger.com) does not offer.Wikis are editable pages by their very nature, so if you are after a degree of privacy you may want to make yours password-protected. They take more expertise and webspace to set up, but could be the answer if you are looking for a collaborative tool for a reasonably tech-savvy audience and are willing to put in a little more time and effort. Choosing the right software is vital, but leading solutions include MediaWiki (www.mediawiki.org) and MoinMoin (http://moinmoin.wikiwikiweb.de), while Wikipedia, unsurprisingly, carries an extensive list of applications (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wiki_software).Many, of course, will prefer to keep using a traditional Personal Information Manager (Pim) software such as Microsoft Outlook, Lotus Organiser or ACT!. These can still be used in conjunction with web-based services, and may also help you to keep a backup of all the information you've put online. MSN supports Outlook through its Hotmail subscription services, while Yahoo! offers Intellisync   which, although not without its problems, is one of the more versatile packages.Open-source users might like to try Sunbird (www.mozilla.org/sunbird), which combines with Mozilla's free web browser and email clients, Firefox and Thunderbird, to create a Pim which delivers many of the same functions as Outlook. But a word of warning: it is still in beta mode, so those wary of potential software or security defects may not want to trust it with their information.The key to successful digital management is finding an easy way to control your information, and for this reason it will serve you well to pick and choose both your hardware and software. Research pays off: if you are going to plump for a new phone, for example, go online and see what other people have to say about hooking it up with your existing software.There is, as always, a disclaimer. It takes commitment to successfully feel the benefits of digital organisation using a Pim or other management system. Many people find it difficult to accept the discipline of entering information into a single, digital point and then sharing that information. This becomes especially difficult when you are unable to get hold of a computer and suddenly find yourself reverting to scraps of paper or traditional diaries.If you find it tough to keep up with online management, then keep trying - it takes more time to train yourself to use it than the other methods you might be used to. And if it becomes a real struggle, perhaps perseverance might be another new year's resolution to put on the list.
Evocative scenes of London dereliction, the musings of the comedian Bill Bailey and a virtual version of Leonardo da Vinci's notebook all feature in search engine Yahoo!'s 10 best websites of 2004.The list of sites - picked by an independent panel of judges chosen for their in-depth knowledge of the internet - also covers subjects as diverse as the human brain and Britain's ugliest cars.Now Yahoo! wants members of the public tochoosetheir ultimate favourite from the weird and wonderful list, and will announce the winning site at the end of the month.The judges were asked to nominate their favourites from a list compiled by Yahoo!'s search team throughout 2004, with an emphasis on finding the most original, humorous and useful sites.That involved everything from charting the progress ofKokothe gorilla or inducing hunger pangs while reading a heartfelt homage to thefry-up. The surfing experts also took a virtual tour around theabandonedpubs, cinemas, shops and hospitals of the capital, and found out exactly what had been happening toBaileyduring his recent tour."The quality of websites on offer this year amazed me," 16-year-old Bobby Macaulay, the winner of the 2003 Yahoo! accolade, said. "So did the ability to find them, which was shown by the breadth of websites featured in the final 10."Salim Mitha, the director of Yahoo! search UK and Europe, urged people to vote for their pick of the bunch, saying: "The judging panel made some tough decisions to shortlist the best of the web - now it's the public's turn."The Yahoo! finds of the year 2004 winnersWeird and Wonderful:Ugliest Cars in BritainEducational:Your Amazing BrainCommunity:TimebankPets and Animals:Koko.orgSoapbox:EggbaconchipsandbeansCelebrity:Bill BaileyHidden Gems:Derelict LondonInnovative:Turning the pagesEntertainment:Weebl's StuffTravel:World Wide Panorama
Sales of music downloads soared over the Christmas period as fans rushed to fill their iPods and other music players, hammering yet another nail in the coffin of the CD single.Led by tracks such as Band Aid 20's Do They Know it's Christmas?, U2's Vertigo and Lemar's If There's Any Justice, download sales leaped through the roof in the four weeks before Christmas, hitting nearly 1 million.According to the Official Chart Company, which compiles sales of singles, albums, downloads and DVDs, CD single sales collapsed over the period. Just two releases - from Band Aid 20 and X Factor winner Steve Brookstein - sold more than 25,000 copies.Retailers sold just 725,000 CD singles in the week before Christmas, compared with 940,000 in the same period last year.Download sales broke through the 250,000-a-week barrier for the first time this year as mainstream retailers such as Tesco joined a host of online services offering 400,000 digital singles at just 79p each.In the year to June 2004, downloads were selling at the rate of barely 10,000 a week, according to figures released by the British Phonographic Industry, the body that represents record labels.The CD single's poor festive performance comes on the back of two less than stellar years. Sales plummeted by 30% in 2003, followed by a further fall of 12% last year.Eric Prydz's Call On Me made chart history late last year by reaching number one on the strength of just 23,500 sales, the lowest number since records began 36 years ago."The single as we've known it for the last 50 years is getting close to the end of its life," said Paul Myers, the founder of online music service Wippit."I've long been predicting that sales of downloads will overtake singles by the end of 2005 but it looks like it will now happen much quicker than that."Other download services spoke of a successful Christmas as overall sales peaked at 262,000."We had a record Christmas, which peaked on the very day itself as everyone opened their shiny new MP3 players and started downloading like mad," said Paul Smith, the UK sales director of OD2, whose top selling single over the period was 80s hit Last Christmas by Wham!.Analysts say the arrival of so many MP3 players will further erode the attractiveness of the CD single. They expect Apple to have shifted more than 3 million iPods over Christmas, in addition to the 6 million sold since the product launched in 2001.Other manufacturers such as Creative, iRiver, Sony and Dell are also thought to have had a bumper Christmas.Just before Christmas Apple said it had sold more than 200 million tracks worldwide on its iTunes online service, a figure expected to leap over the holiday period.But the BPI said talk of the end of CD singles was premature."It's been another year of decline in CD singles sales but the rate of decline has slowed compared with the previous year," said a BPI spokesman."Its too soon to talk about the death knell of the CD single - there will always be a demand for physical tracks."The BPI is expected to release information later today showing CD album sales performed well in the four week run-up to Christmas, more or less maintaining the 2003 rate of 22.5 million units sold.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
After our break over the Christmas period, the print version of Online returns today with a bang.The new year gets off to a quick start with our cover story onorganising your life online.Meanwhile David McCandless gets in a sticky situation when heleeches his neighbour's Wi-Fi, Julian Baggini praises theemail relationship, and Ben Hammersley tests out somesolar-powered clothing.Elsewhere, web guruEsther Dysonchats with us and we take a look at some of Apple'smore, erm, dedicated fans ahead of Macworld next week.On a more serious note, we take a look at how theweb coped with the Asian tsunami.With the new Freedom of Information Act coming into place on January 1, Dave Birch writes this week'sSecond sighton whether we've really considered what "freedom of information" means, while Simon Bisson watches thenew legislation in actionat the Suffolk constabulary.As usual there's lots more - justherefor the whole thing.
Weblog firmSix Apart(the company behind Typepad, which made our list of100 most useful websites) has gone on the acquisition trail and bought Danga,owners of LiveJournal.Thepress releasestates that "As of today, the combined user base of both companies exceeds 6.5 million users, with thousands more added daily", while SixApart directorMena Trottsays that LiveJournal is a vibrant blogging community (even if they don't call themselves bloggers) and that she wants to squash rumours.[SixApart] have spent the last half year thinking about how to be a successful company and still stay true to the essence of what we believe in - people should have the ability to inexpensively publish and communicate with the best tools possible and we should have the ability to sustain ourselves as a business.TheFAQs continueby saying "our plans do not include removing the free level, plastering the sites with ads, owning user content, etc.".An interesting move, though not an entirely bizarre one. But what will this really mean for weblogging in general, if anything?
How many emails did you have to plough through when you got back to work this year? And how many of those were ones you hadn't dealt with before you left for Christmas? We're now sending and receiving so much email - 35bn messages a day worldwide, according to IDC researchers - that it is easy to get overwhelmed.Even after you have read and responded to a message you still need to keep track of it, either for practical or legal reasons. Multiply the filing and archiving by everyone in your company and you have a headache that is only going to get worse.The information in old emails can be valuable (for business continuity) or very expensive (if you need to produce a message to comply with legislation like the new Freedom of Information Act). EDS estimates that it spent $4.7m (&#163;2.5m) finding and retrieving email messages that the company was required to produce for just one court action last year.The first step is coping with email as it arrives. Some of that you can do with appropriate rules: you do not want every mailing list or RSS feed you are signed up to clogging up your main inbox, so create a rule that files them in a folder.Make sure you have a good spam filter and develop a system for working with the messages you have to act on. This can be as simple as dragging them into folders based on different projects. There are also tools that help implement time-management systems, such as FranklinCovey's PlanPlus and Getting Things Done.The need for discipline does not end once you've read your mail. As with any other important information, it is important to back it up regularly.And if you are using an older version of Outlook and your email does not stay on a Microsoft Exchange server, you need to make sure your mailbox does not exceed 2GB or Outlook will have problems accessing it.For individuals, exporting all the messages in a folder - last year's mail or a project you've finished - will give you a file you can burn to   CD. Outlook's AutoArchive feature (under Tools|Options|Other|AutoArchive) can archive individual folders. You just need to choose how old messages need to be to get archived, and how often Outlook does the archiving.With other email clients you may have to extract and delete the messages by hand. Either way, put the archive files on to a server that is regularly backed up or save them on to CD and keep them at another location for extra security.If you have a Google Gmail account, you can set your normal email address to forward to it. That will back up 1GB of email in easily searchable online storage, though you might not want to store very confidential messages there.Companies with lots of users need something more formal. If you use Exchange, keep messages on the server and synchronise to desktops and laptops rather than downloading them permanently. That way you can backup emails along with all the other documents on the server. It's more convenient too - if you upgrade to a new desktop PC, or if you lose your laptop, your messages are not gone for good. Also, mobile users can read messages from a laptop, mobile phone or via a web browser, so they can access important emails wherever they are.The problem with backing up emails using traditional tools is that it becomes much harder to find individual messages - you have to restore all the messages in the backup, or wait for the help desk to do it, before you can search through them. Email archiving makes it easier to find and retrieve individual messages. Products such as KVS Inc's Enterprise Vault let you specify which messages need to be stored for legal reasons, and which are useful enough to keep (you do not want to waste space on messages about leaving parties and clearing up after yourself in the kitchen). The software indexes the mail contents and takes out duplicate messages to save space. Chronicle Solutions' NetReplay offers similar features and handles Webmail and instant messaging conversations as well as email.If you do not have an IT department to run this kind of system, try the online backup providers, who are starting to offer more sophisticated services. Iron Mountain is planning to bring its US email archiving service to the UK, "when the demand is there". This uses Legato's EmailXtender software to capture and forward specific emails, attachments and instant message sessions to Iron Mountain's web-hosted digital archive, where messages are indexed.When you need an archived message, you can retrieve it from your normal email software.Tools such as these are relatively new, so it is unclear who the big players are going to be. However, such archives are the next logical step for making the most of information that would otherwise be locked away.Whether you are dealing with email in your inbox, in your filing   system or recovered from a backup, finding the message you want can take too long.Outlook's built-in search is painfully slow. The Search Folders in Outlook 2003 are an excellent idea - they are virtual folders so you can organise your mail without moving any of it, which means you do not end up with a fixed hierarchy of folders that does not match the overlaps and complexity of real-world projects. Unfortunately, they can also be slow if you have a large mailbox. The Activities tab inside a contact address gives you a list of all the related emails, appointments and attachments for that person but again, it takes time to build the list.Instead of spending time filing messages, check out Microsoft's new version of the excellent LookOut software it bought last year. This is integrated into the MSN Toolbar (you can get the toolbar in Outlook, Outlook Express, Explorer, Internet Explorer and on your desktop).The beta version of the MSN Toolbar Suite improves on LookOut in a few ways - you can search while it is building the index (so you don't have to wait half an hour after you install it), you can see the first few lines of each matching message and you can choose the type of attachment you want to look for (presentation,   spreadsheet, photo and so on). Google's Desktop Search searches emails as well as files on your computer's hard drive.Zoe takes a slightly different approach; it indexes messages and extracts details of the sender, any attachments and hyperlinks. You can search for a term and see the messages containing that word; you can also browse the list of people who have sent messages referring to that word and see the URLs from their messages. Click on a name and you see all the messages a person has sent you. As well as searching for particular emails, you can view the structures of projects you work on and teams you work with.Zoe acts as a mail client and server, so you can access both the messages and the index over the web - and it is free. However, like many opensource programs, it can be tricky to set up. There is also a paid-for version, Zoe Professional, with extra user management features that integrate with Microsoft Exchange.There is no reason why it should be harder to find a mail you sent last year than to look up obscure facts on the web. If you backup your email securely and use tools that make it easy to extract information, you can turn your inbox from a discomforting tangle into a valuable resource.Links  Filters, folders and helpful factshttp://toolbar.msn.comhttp://desktop.google.comwww.franklincovey.comwww.davidco.comwww.kvsinc.comwww.chroniclesolutions.com/ukhttp://guests.evectors.it/zoewww.ironmountain.co.uk
Before he rolled out the keynote speech at CES, Bill Gates went out to warm up the crowd.Here are a few interesting notes from a chat he had withCNet:"[On the Media Center] There's a thing that we can do for the advertisers that is critical for them, which is to allow the advertising to be targeted. That's what you've seen with our IPTV (Internet Protocol television) effort... With that infrastructure, even for people watching the same show, you can insert just in a perfect way an ad targeted to that individual.""[On whether music sales are important] In and of itself, it's not going to be a big source of a profit because there will be lots of people with stores out there, but then in terms of making it simple, having it work on all the devices, work with all the stores - that is important to us.It's mainly what you'd expect from somebody who's about to make a big speech - nothing too unexpected, a few hints at what we might hear today. But I think one of the most interesting things he says is about Firefox:"Well, people get confused about browsers. You can have as many browsers as you want on your PC, just like you can have tons of music players and things like that.So when people say Firefox is being downloaded onto people's systems, that's true, but IE is also on those systems. Firefox is new, and people are trying it out. There's a certain percentage of people who do that - it's very easy to download.He's noting two phenomena in the same breath: adoption and usage. Lots of people may be adopting Firefox because it's new, and different to IE. The figures may indeed drop off over time.But lots of the stats I've seen relate not to "how many people have dowloaded FF" but to "how many people are using it as their main web browser". That information's easy to gather for websites who keep track of their visitors.Let's not forget, IE is still massively dominant in the browser market. Microsoft still has, in most studies I've seen, a share that's more than 90% share.But then again IE is already built in to any PC running Windows (I seem to remember an antitrust case about this very thing, perhaps Bill's forgotten it). So saying "IE is also on those systems" seems like a bit of a red herring, since IE is on those systems *without* the user choosing it, whereas Firefox is a proactive decision. Still, where would we be without a bit of semantics, eh?Anyway, roll on the keynote: it seems his main plank could well be pushing harder to get Microsoft running your home entertainment.
The year 2005 portends momentous events as we enter the era of e-government. Comets will fill the skies, governments will fall and public sector IT programmes may run on time. We present "Old Cross's Almanack", a prediction of the year ahead. As related to government and computers, anyway.January: Following the first meeting of the council of chief information officers, newly elected general secretary Ian Watmore nails a manifesto of demands to the gates of Downing Street. Top of the list: No more new IT-based policies until we get the current backlog under control.February: Ministry of Defence cancels procurement of the Defence Information Infrastructure and gives &#163;4bn to a bloke called   Kevin who reckons he can get a better deal on eBay. National Audit Office announces investigation.March: Directgov web portal celebrates its first anniversary. Prince Charles condemns its home page as "unpatriotic". David Miliband cancels his first appearance in the role of e-government minister when the PM calls a general election.April: Labour promises to cut taxes by spending more money on IT, Conservatives to cut taxes by spending less. Liberals promise to raise taxes by spending less. Scripts of Casualty, The Archers and Strictly Celebrity Brain Transplant all include references to the ease of electronic appointment booking in the NHS. No 10 denies political interference.May: Surprise result in general election. Microsoft's Bill Gates flies in for emergency summit at No 10.   NHS electronic booking service suspended for upgrades.June: Government publishes fast-track plan for identity cards, to include RFID chips, by end of 2007. All other government IT programmes frozen. Existing public sector websites ordered to become self-funding. Council of chief information officers threatens industrial action.July: Silly season begins early with Comet Tempel 1 in the skies, a public sector IT success on the front pages and a government department specifying open-source software. The National Audit Office reports that Kevin in Maidstone has bought a job lot of 2002 Nokia GSM sets. Still has &#163;3.8bn left in budget. Concludes that this approach to procurement represents "excellent value for money".August: Kevin appointed to run a scrutiny of IT procurement.September: Chief information officers across the country go on strike; Ian Watmore arrested following disturbances around a picket line in Whitehall. Society of IT Managementout in sympathy.October: Government service delivery and tax-cutting plans paralysed by industrial action. PM calls snap general election on question of "Who governs Britain?" Kevin disappears, along with &#163;3.8bn.November: Surprise result in election. New PM cancels ID cards and revises e-government and efficiency targets. Chief information officers return to work.December: PM announces consultation on ID cards. Kevin arrested - no sign of &#163;3.8bn. On New Year's Eve, Ian Watmore announces that 95.9% of government services are e-enabled. Nobody takes the slightest notice.
Information may well want to be free, but sometimes it takes a law to open the doors. From January 1, the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) means that you can ask any government body in England, Wales and Northern Ireland for virtually any information they might hold (Scotland has had its own Foia since 2002).The FOIA is not the first legislation of its kind, but it is one of the most revealing - and demanding - for the public bodies that have to respond to requests. The public pay no fees, inquiries can come in through any channel and there is a statutory 20-working-day response requirement.The legislation is also retrospective and covers all recorded information held by a public body. This includes emails, documents, handwritten notes and recorded phone conversations. With the vast amounts of information flowing through public bodies today, technology is key to delivering accurate responses on time. Unfortunately, unlike other government-driven IT initiatives, the act did not include additional funding to help public bodies comply.Compliance will depend on good information management policies. Unfortunately, like most organisations, public bodies tend not to understand their business processes and information flows. Different departments will have different ways of describing the same pieces of information, making simple queries complex. It is not going to be easy to respond to a FOIA request in 20 days if, for example, there is no way to search for an email across several departments in the same local council.Some bodies have used the act's requirements as an opportunity to catch up on their e-government programmes, consolidating storage systems and implementing new document and information management solutions. The requirements of the FOIA mean that structured, semi-structured and unstructured information needs to be available, so it is important that organisations understand the information they have, and how it is categorised. The most common solution is an enterprise content management system, similar to those used by organisations that have to comply with the current round of business regulations.It will be some time before we see just how effective preparations for the changes have been. Certainly some bodies will be unprepared, but others have taken the step of appointing compliance officers, with responsibility for all an organisation's   information. It is a similar role to that required for organisations working on compliance to modern business regulations - the FOIA is the public sector's Sarbanes-Oxley. The biggest threat to compliance will be the traditional tendency for organisations to work as unconnected groups. Regulations such as the FOIA expose the interconnections that make up a modern business process. Keeping boundaries to a minimum makes it easier to track information, and to develop common cataloguing and metadata standards, which make it easier to retrieve information quickly.One public body that is ready for the open doors of the FOIA is Suffolk constabulary, after two years' preparation and the implementation of new document management tools. Beginning with an "assessment of readiness" conducted by BT Openaccess, superintendent Kevin Sloane, the head of force inspectorate, looked for software that would help the constabulary comply with the act, and make existing processes easier to handle.FOIA applications have to manage the 20-day response time and also allow public bodies to blank out sections that are exempt from public release. There are more than 20 possible exemptions, and the document   has to explain why content has been removed. This audit trail would be the basis of any appeal to the information commissioner.Software solutions can help public bodies save time and money, especially when redacting information. Before installing BT's Case Manager, Suffolk constabulary used to handle more than 3,000 Data Protection Act releases a year by blanking out any confidential information with marker pens and then photocopying the document several times so it was impossible to read the obscured document - at a significant environmental cost in paper and electricity, let alone time. The new software solution blanks out exempt confidential details on-screen, using scanned copies of paper documents, as well as automating the production of notification letters.Police forces cover large areas, so fax machines at local stations are directly connected to the document management system, meaning requests and documents can be quickly passed to a central team.As an example of what can be done with the new tools, Suffolk Constabulary has redacted all the documents relating to the Rendlesham UFO incident and placed them on a website. It was an exercise that helped to test their new Case Manager tools, and at   the same time it opened up to public access all the information related to what would have otherwise been a very common set of requests.But there is more to compliance than just managing information inside public organisations. In the past, the lack of complaints has often been seen as a sign of compliance, but this will not be the case with FOIA. The 20-day response window is a service level agreement (SLA), and like all SLAs it needs careful monitoring. As requests can come in through any channel, this is a requirement that means public bodies will need to look at all the channels they use for interactions with the outside world. IT managers will need to consider their telephone, email and web infrastructures, as well as measuring just how long it takes to respond to a request for information.The FOIA is not just a problem for public bodies - it is also a headache for IT companies that have worked with any public body at any time. The act contains exemptions for information that is regarded as confidential, but interpretations of just what is covered by exemptions are going to vary. Companies with histories of working with public bodies will need to audit the information they have already handed over to them and flag any possible exemptions.Companies that are planning to work with public bodies in the future will now need to write contracts with the FOIA in mind. These should clearly define what information is to be publicly accessible and what is to be regarded as commercially confidential. Companies should also make sure they will be notified of any FOIA requests that might affect their business. In the US, companies make requests about themselves through third parties in order to see what information will be released.Meeting the SLA for responses from public bodies means organisations will need to manage vast amounts of electronic information, and this is both a challenge and an opportunity for IT departments. They will need to break down the walls of tradition that insulate departments from one another, and finally take over the reins of information management. Success could result in increased efficiencies and better access to information internally, as well as providing quick responses to public inquiries.
The doctor folds her stethoscope and peers reassuringly over her spectacles. "There's nothing at all to worry about, it's quite common at your time of life. But just to be on the safe side, I'm going to prescribe a few websites for you to take a look at, once a day."This could be the shape of medical consultations in the near future if a vision of the NHS published by the government just before Christmas becomes reality. The three-year plan to put electronic information "at the centre of health" marks one of the biggest strategic shifts in the NHS since it was created in 1948. For the first time, dispensing information will be as important as dispensing pills or performing operations.Among the innovations set out in the new strategy are a patient information bank - a central repository of information about health and medicine; a dedicated NHS search engine to help people find accurate information on the web; and health channels on digital TV, linked to the NHS Direct online service.The strategy also repeats the promise that, by 2008, patients will be able to call up their NHS electronic health records via a secure web service called HealthSpace.All this adds up to a formidable challenge for the multibillion pound NHS National Programme for IT, which this year begins installing new standard systems in hundreds of hospitals and surgeries across England.The aim is to give patients a choice of where they can get treatment and to improve public health by persuading people to look after   themselves better. Information, especially on the web, is crucial to both agendas. For example, today, according to the strategy, people with internet access tend to be healthier than those without.After several false starts, the NHS is attempting to reach the offline population via digital TV. Health secretary John Reid last month unveiled   NHS Direct Interactive on Sky TV, where viewers can call up about 3,000 pages of information via the "interactive" button on their remote control. They include basic information on common diseases, keeping healthy and how to use the NHS.Reid said that, with 7.5 million subscribers, NHS Direct Interactive will be one of the biggest interactive digital TV services in the world and it would become available through other digital TV services, such as cable and Freeview, during the year.The launch follows a series of pilot projects which suggested that digital TV can reach audiences without access to the web. The Department of Health is spending &#163;5m a year on the service over the next three years.For web users, the new information strategy promises several innovations. A health search engine will help users navigate the "NHS Gateway" site.The patient information bank will hold reliable information available across the NHS, reducing duplication as different organisations publish their own material.By 2006/07 HealthSpace, a personal health organiser already available, will be integrated with the NHS Care Records Service, the new electronic health record. Although the strategy does not go into details, allowing patients access will need some sort of smartcard authentication system. Patients will need to be able to prove they are calling up their own details rather than anyone else's.Information prescriptions are another idea. These would consist of instructions about where to go for further information.New figures suggest the NHS's existing electronic information services are building up record audiences - over the Christmas holiday, a record 19,344 people visited the NHS Direct website on a single day.Some individual NHS organisation websites already boast far more internet traffic than this. The Great Ormond Street hospital, for example, says its site receives about 6m hits a month.The snag with the government's plans for an information-centred NHS is that merely publishing data does not ensure people will use it wisely. Hence another idea about to emerge from Whitehall: evening classes on how to read an electronic health record.Links Better information for healthwww.nhs.ukwww.dh.gov.ukwww.childrenfirst.nhs.ukwww.healthspace.nhs.uk
Whether you love them, loathe them or remain resolutely indifferent, Macs are more of a cultural phenomenon than a computing platform. The love of Apple's computers is such that one of America's most popular Macintosh magazines is named MacAddict. Next week San Francisco plays host to the first of four annual Macworld Expo shows at which Apple's chief executive, Steve Jobs, trundles out the "next big thing" for the Macintosh faithful.Journalist Leander Kahney has made much of Macintosh fanaticism in recent years. His interest in the subject has spawned a column at Wired News, a blog and now a book: The Cult of Mac. It is not a serious sociological treatise but rather a sidewards glance at the Mac world,   packed with insight and entertaining anecdotes.Kahney is himself a paid-up member of the religion, but even he is surprised by the lengths which some fans go to - getting Apple tattoos seems extreme until you read about people who sleep in their cars while visiting Macworld or, in one case, dress up as Jobs. "The thing about geeks, or anyone with a passion," says Kahney, "is that if they can express that passion, they're interesting."As with any minority group, identity is an issue and, in this case, it has become bound up with users' relationship with the object. But what bonds do this group of people really hold? None, according to Kahney: "I've met a lot of Mac people and there's no real archetype, but everyone thinks they're it. I've met retired admirals who are to the right of Adolf Hitler and sandal-wearing Californians. Both types think they are typical Mac users."One interesting character who makes an appearance in the book is the iBrotha: the late Rodney Lain. Lain was a controversial columnist who compared Mac users' experiences to the fight for civil rights in the US. Not only was Lain a Mac user, but he was a black American and politically rightwing: a minority within a minority who dedicated much of his life to a minority computer. Lain died in 2002 after a lifelong battle with manic depression, but during his high periods he evangelised the Mac to anyone who would listen.Despite such love for the corporation, all is not well in the Mac world. The products which attract the most devotion are unsuccessful machines like the Power Mac Cube or the discontinued Newton PDA. Now that Apple is the dominant player in one   market - digital music players - its users face a strenuous test... can they love something so mainstream?Some believe that Apple will use the Macworld Expo to unveil another product aimed squarely at the masses. Bruce Horn, one of the original Mac designers, is enthused by the possibility: "I'm reading rumours of a sub-$500 Mac. Wouldn't that be interesting?" Such a machine would clearly be an attempt to woo iPod-owning Windows users over to the Apple side, but if successful, the Mac would lose much of its cachet."Whatever Jobs unveils during his keynote speech, the move toward the mainstream is assured. Apple has already announced a deal with Motorola to put the iTunes download service onto the company's mobile phones - likely to be the first of many such partnerships - and the distinctly dull PC manufacturer HP is   already selling iPods.According to Kahney, the cult of the Mac will survive: "A lot of it is about Steve Jobs. He's a contrarian. He literally flew a pirate flag at Apple."The Mac cult comes down to exactly that sort of contrariness - but Apple's increasing success may mean Mac users having to face the reality that their beloved machines are simply tools and Apple is just another corporation, no more or less worthy of devotion than any other.
Ahoy, me AtariSid Meier's Pirates!PC,&#163;34.99, Atari/Firaxis, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Pirates of the Caribbean has made swashbuckling cool again, so it's a good time for Atari to relaunch Sid Meier's 1987 franchise, Pirates!This 21st-century makeover still contains many of the elements of the original as you assume the role of a pirate captain plundering, duelling and adventuring across the high seas.In the pirate way, your allegiances can be bought by almost anyone for a price. Meanwhile, forming the backdrop to your protagonist's quest to rescue his family is a war between Spain, France, England and Holland. By completing quests for these factions you can gain money, fame and upgrade your ship. It's also fun to gather tipoffs in the local tavern.The gameplay is a mixture of mini-games loosely strung around the main storyline. Most tactical of these are the naval battles, where you have to fire upon enemy ships while battling winds and ocean currents.Once you've softened up your enemies up, you can board them for some swordplay action, which takes the form of basic beat 'em ups.This makes for a great Errol Flynn atmosphere. However, some of these don't sit quite as well, particularly the dancing game where you have to mimic the dance moves of a governor's daughter - hardly something you'd catch Blackbeard doing.The repetition of animations in some parts is annoying, as are the archaic-looking female characters. But what Pirates lacks in depth, it makes up for in style and fun.Rhianna PratchettFist fightsGametrak: Dark WindPlayStation 2, &#163;49.99 In2Games, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;In the wake of the success of Eye Toy, the games industry has begun to think about further alternatives to the standard controller. In2Games has come up with the most bizarre effort so far: the Gametrak, designed for a PS2 (a PC version is due soon).It consists of a large plastic hub which sits on the floor with a trapezoidal footpad. You also get two gloves, which attach to wires in the hub. Don the gloves, straddle the footpad, attach the wires, and you can track your hand movements with immense accuracy. After a painless calibration session, you are faced with a virtual punch-bag which you can knock around by shadow boxing.Gametrak's first game, Dark Wind (which comes free with the controller), is a bog-standard beat 'em up. But the hardware works so well that it feels fresh and exciting.Dark Wind is quite sophisticated - you must learn to block accurately, to pan around using the footpad and to call on "magic" special moves. It even has a two-player split-screen mode.Perhaps the best aspect of the   game is that it tells you the speed of your fastest punch after each bout as well as the calories you have burned.Steve BoxerRace against timeBlinx 2: Masters of Time &amp; SpaceXbox, &#163;39.99 Microsoft, &#42;&#42;&#42;The one thing the Xbox lacks is a decent platform game. The PS2 has Jak, Ratchet and Sly for gamers who enjoy leaping around in cartoon worlds. Sadly, the Xbox only has Blinx.The original Blinx was a mess, with camera and gameplay flaws. But the hook of the game (manipulating time to replay sections) was exciting, even if it wasn't implemented properly. Blinx 2 rectifies this plus other annoyances such as the time limits. Collecting shards is easier and players can get stuck into time manipulation quicker. You also get to control the bad guys. There are more puzzles this time, although an intrusive hints system negates the challenge.Blinx 2 is an improvement on the original but there's still little here that makes the journey really worthwhile. Because of this, it is recommended to younger players only.Greg HowsonTop 5 gamesAll formats1Need For Speed: Underground 22Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas3The Incredibles4Call of Duty: Finest Hour5FIFA 2005&#183;Source: Elspa, compiled by ChartTrackblogs.guardian.co.uk/games
Portable playersMini rivalKorean manufacturer iRiver has unveiled a rival to Apple's iPod Mini, in the guise of the H10. The model, due in the UK shortly, is roughly the same size as its Apple competitor, but unlike the mini has a 1.5in colour screen capable of displaying artwork and JPeg images. It also boasts slightly more storage in its 5GB hard disk, a gigabyte more than the mini. Other features include Windows Media Audio (WMA), playback and an FM radio tuner. Battery life is rated at about 12 hours. The H10 is expected to retail for between &#163;150 and &#163;200.www.iriver.comSilver screenArchos is set to premiere its next-generation personal video players at the CES show in Las Vegas this week. The PMA400 will include many of the facilities of previous Archos personal video players including MP3, JPeg and MPeg compatibility, a 3.5in LCD display and a hard disk, but will also feature PDA-type functionality. New facilities are likely to include internet access via Wi-Fi, a touch screen and synchronisation with a range of Microsoft applications. The devices, whichshould be on sale this summer, run on a Linux-based operating system.www.archos.comWirelessSee soundsJapanese company NAD has become the latest audio-visual oriented manufacturer to deliver a device that streams entertainment files wirelessly from a PC to a TV or home entertainment system. The NetCap network receiver is a small set-top box that hooks up to a TV/AV system and allows users to access MP3 and WMA audio and MPEG4 (DiVx) and Windows Media video on their PC, via either an 802.11g/b wireless or a wired ethernet-based connection. Information about the files being streamed is displayed on the TV screen. The receiver is on sale now, priced at about &#163;350.www.nadelectronics.comWi-Fi to hi-fiCambridge Audio is aiming to tempt serious hi-fi enthusiasts into wirelessly streaming digital music with its Azur 640H system. The &#163;500 hi-fi unit, set to debut in the UK in the spring, pairs a CD burner with a 160GB hard disk. Users can either archive their music collections on the system or, via a wireless or wired   ethernet connection, play tracks stored on their PC or Mac on their hi-fi system. The Azur 640H is compatible with both compressed (MP3) and uncompressed audio formats and if users choose the latter they can store up to 300 CD-quality albums on the hard disk.www.cambridge-audio.co.ukHome entertainmentDo it digitalHumax, which made its name in the UK selling digital terrestrial TV decoders, is lining up a spring release for an LCD TV with a digital TV decoder and hard disk-based video recorder built in. The 32in screen LGB-32TPVR includes a 40GB hard disk which can store up to 20 hours of programmes. Users can make timed recordings via an onscreen EPG. As the TV features a pair of digital terrestrial tuners as well as an analogue one, users can watch one digital channel while recording the other digital and   the analogue channel. There's no official news on price or a launch date.www.humaxdigital.com/ukMobile phonesSharp shotThe first mobile to feature a two-megapixel camera is set to arrive in the UK in the next two weeks. The Sharp V902sh, a 3G handset available exclusively from Vodafone, is also among the first cameraphones to sport an optical zoom and include an autofocus system. The clamshell phone features a rotating 262k colour screen, Java, MP3 playback via both earphones and an integrated stereo speaker, an AV-out connector for displaying images on a TV and 24MB of internal memory. The phone is also compatible with Vodafone's Live! 3G applications including video calling, video download and streaming and music downloads. Battery life is rated at up to 240 hours standby and 140 minutes talktime.www.vodafone.co.ukSize does matterIt is without Bluetooth or infrared links, it has limited storage capacity, a protruding aerial and it is only dualband - yet NEC's new clamshell 3G mobile phone (the 338, available through 3) is bound to attract attention. It is not because of its looks - functional   rather than funky - but because of its amazing lightness.The NEC338, packs in almost all of the services a 3G mobile is expected to offer - video calls, camera, MP3 player, email and multimedia messaging - in a small handset that the company claims weighs only 114g. On our scales it was nearer 100g. Either way, it is yet another miracle of miniaturisation, especially when one thinks of the initial batch of clunky 3G phones of only a year ago. Goodness knows what will be available in five years' time if technological progress continues.Despite the small size of the handset, the keyboard is more manageable than some bigger models and the four-way tracker pad (with a select button in the middle) enables smooth navigation even though the browser only takes you into 3's walled garden of internet services and not into the rest of the   web. Since this is a compact enough phone to use even without the 3G services it is an ideal model for the company to continue with its policy of selling 3G phones cheaply to establish a large user base.Stat of the week: Online Christmas shoppingSisters are doing it for themselves - on the web. Nearly three quarters of women surveyed by Nielsen/NetRatings bought gifts online this Christmas, compared to 61% of men. But men were swayed by the idea of no queues and lower prices, while women wanted to avoid the crush.
I heard a great phrase on the radio a few days ago. There was a  discussion about the accelerated shredding of government  documents ahead of the introduction of the Freedom of Information Act last week after some  departments allegedly doubled the  amount of shredding going on.They talked about the Cabinet  Office's instruction to the civil service to delete emails more than  three months old - except for the  important ones, which would be  printed out and filed. The speaker - I've no idea who it was - said  there was nothing suspicious  about any of this, it was just part of  an "aggressive records management" policy.I'll say. Printing emails out and  filing them is a guaranteed method  for complying with the requirement to keep important messages while simultaneously making sure  they can never be accessed. Once  they're on paper, they can't be  searched, sorted or linked in any  way. That's a pretty aggressive  way of dealing with the new era of  freedom of information.One of the reasons given for this  new email-retention policy is that  it would cost too much to keep all  of the emails and would be a waste  of taxpayers' money. Yet it must  cost substantial sums to have people spending time looking through  old emails, deciding which ones to  keep, then printing them and  putting them into files.I have a very different approach - I just archive everything. The  technology curve makes this inevitable, because the marginal cost  of additional storage is less than  the marginal mental cost of sorting and selecting. Your whole life - not just your emails, but all of  your documents, photos,certificates and home videos - just  doesn't take up that much space.All of my emails from last year  amounts to a few hundred  megabytes. Since blank DVD-R  disks cost very little and since I  really can't be bothered spending  time working out what to keep and  what to bin, I just burn everything. In fact, because I'm a big nerd, I  burn two copies of everything - one set to keep at home and one set  to keep at the office. This prudent  dual-site backup policy has more  to do with laziness than defences  against fire, burglary or natural  disaster, but it's simple and cheap.In fact, it's so cheap I think the  civil service should adopt the same  approach to demonstrate its commitment to freedom of information. A back-of-the-envelope calculation tells me that if the  government were to keep all of the  emails for every single one of the  six million-ish civil servants in the  UK, it wouldn't be that much data. Let's say each of them gets 100  emails every day (excluding junk  deleted by filters) and each message is 5KB: that amounts to  roughly a petabyte of data. Large  companies seem to be able to manage this amount of data without  too much trouble - as a comparison, Cisco has about two petabytes  of managed data.The last hard disk I bought for  my Apple at home was 300GB and I  got it for just more than ?100 on  eBay. By that measure, it would be  less than half a million quid for all  of the civil service's emails for the  year. Stick it online so that Google  indexes it for you and there you go: real freedom of information.
