About timeBlack history has been neglected in the UK, and we have been very slow to follow America's example, which has held an annual Black History Month for the past 25 years. However, the national archives (formerly the public record office) and the Black and Asian Studies Association has now opened a website, Black Presence: Asian and Black History in Britain, funded with lottery money. It covers black and Asian history in Britain from 1500 to 1850. At the end of this month, the story will be continued at another site, Moving Here, which will cover the history of migration to England from the 1800s to the present day. A third lottery-funded site worth visiting is Be-Me, which stands for Black and Ethnic-Minority Experience. This educational site was set up in 1999 "to record the historical experiences of African-Caribbean and Asian people who came to Wolverhampton after the second world war".www.kn.pacbell.com/wired/BHM/bh_hotlist.htmlwww.pro.gov.uk/pathways/blackhistorywww.movinghere.org.ukwww.be-me.orgBuy now!Next Thursday is Internet Shopping Day in the UK, and industry body IMRG (Interactive Media in Retail Group) would like you to fire up your browser and buy something - just to support the cause, of course. It has put up a microsite to reassure people that online shopping is safe. Visitors are also promised some special offers and competition prizes. Local merchants are hoping to benefit from a new directive brought in on July 1, which requires companies outside the European Union to pay VAT on goods and services sold electronically to European customers. Sponsors of the 24x7x2003 campaign, which signifies "always available", include   B&amp;Q, Boots, MFI and Marks &amp; Spencer.http://24x7.imrg.orgClassIn the past two months, Schools Web Directory UK says it has "found, visited and catalogued" 3,657 school websites, and now claims it has a full set of state secondary school sites, plus many independent and primary schools. However, this does not mean you can find details of every state secondary school because, shockingly, only 57% are online - and about 5% of these sites "could be described as grossly out of date or under-developed". Still, well done to the LEAs for Blackpool, Cardiff, Clackmannanshire, Isle of Wight, Kingston upon Thames, Orkney Islands and Rutland, all of whose state secondaries are on the web. You can add your local school, if it is missing.www.schoolswebdirectory.co.ukOpen govAnonymous US government employees are busy collecting and collating information on citizens, under its Total Information Awareness programme, so anonymous citizens should start doing the same thing on governments and their employees. That's the idea behind Open Government Information Awareness, a website created by a student at MIT in Boston. The UK does not appear in the list of states, but it might be worth getting a copy of the database software the site uses, and doing it ourselves.http://opengov.media.mit.edu/Small WondirIt must have sounded a great idea at the time. The web is full of ignoramuses and smart alecs, so you just need a website to connect the two. That is what the Wondir Foundation, a non-profit start-up, has provided. People can type in their questions, which scroll by in a window, so others can leap in and answer them. The site has been up for more than a year now, it is still in beta test and, sad to say, neither the questions nor answers show any sign of promise.www.wondir.orgMeet DanajaIf the kids are at a loose end this month, you could always take them to the Burarra Gathering of indigenous people in northern Australia. It's all done in Flash MX, so the loading times are long: if you are using a V.90 modem, it is better to download the presentation first. There is a lot of background information, including resources for teachers. And how else will they learn to say "Bobo burraya niya barra" instead of CU l8r?http://burarra.questacon.edu.au/home.htmlDownload:http://burarra.questacon.edu.au/pages/download_site.htmlNew &amp; notedArthur's Poetry Clubhttp://pbskids.org/arthur/Motown Museumwww.motownmuseum.comSpeed up the Webwww.performancecorps.orgwww.websiteoptimization.comSix of the bestLe TourOfficial sitewww.letour.frLive coveragewww.dailypeloton.com/tdfmain.aspNew York Times Flash guidehttp://a208.g.akamai.netNews and resultswww.cyclingnews.comTour de Lancewww.lancearmstrong.comThe bloghttp://notd.blogs.com/tdf
Cross benefitsI must take Jack Schofield (Column, July 10) to task for his article about Mozilla. Why the diatribe against its cross-platform nature? Is he not aware that the old Netscape 4 was always a cross-platform browser, and the only one used by millions of Unix users? He might also have pointed out more clearly that the current Mozilla browser is already vastly superior to Internet Explorer, whatever happens with the forthcoming Firebird and Thunderbird releases.Alastair StevensCambridgeIn frontMozilla's innovations go way beyond IE6 and, because it is open source, there is a healthy movement to extend the capabilities of Mozilla which can be found atwww.mozdev.organdhttp://extensionroom.mozdev.org.One of the many innovations in the Mozilla browser is tabbed browsing, where multiple browser windows are open inside one window, which makes for a less cluttered screen. You can block pop-up windows, images and cookies, search Google and other search engines directly within the browser and from the address bar.There are also add-ons for mouse gestures and a button which lets you decide whether to play Flash movies. The Google toolbar has even been ported to Mozilla. The problem with people not using Mozilla is they don't know it is out there. IE is lagging and needs to catch up with Mozilla and Opera, otherwise it will lose out.Paul MillarBedfordCheeky BTWhen I read about BT calling for ISPs to lower broadband charges (BT aims for pole position, July 10) I nearly choked. Much lower prices than BT's are already out there! BT's cheapest no-frills broadband service, BT Broadband, costs a minimum of &#163;27 per month and comes with doubts about the quality of its line speeds and customer service and has no email account or webspace.I have an unrestricted broadband service through the ISP Free-Online, with unlimited email and 250MB of web space, great customer service and very high line speed and reliability and it costs me &#163;22 per month! A less well-featured service is available from the same supplier for &#163;19 per month. And no, I do not work for them or have shares in them.BT should put its money where its mouth is and lower its comparatively exorbitant fees.Ian BlackSouthamptonArm-twistingYou report that BT would like ISPs that use their network to cut the cost from the current &#163;25-&#163;30 per month. I am paying &#163;27 per month... to BT! Am I missing something here? Maybe the BT spokesman could practise his arm-twisting skills a little closer to home?Martin BoveTrick missedRather than concentrating on the "power of the consumer" in rural areas, regarding the installation of broadband hardware (BT aims for pole position, July 10), has BT missed a trick by overlooking rural-based companies? They would, I am sure, embrace the ready power and speed that broadband provides. Opportunities for rural companies using broadband are vast and will prove advantageous for them, their customers and for BT.Mike PowellReadingPartly politicalHow can you write about the impact on politics of blogging (Spread the gospel, July 3) without mentioning Howard Dean's democratic presidential campaign, and his campaign manager, Joe Trippi? This guy has come from nowhere to be one ofthree major candidates in the upcoming primary. To give you some idea of what's happeninghere, last month, his campaign raised $750,000 (&#163;470,000) in one day from 60,000 people.The driving force behind the campaign? A bunch of official and unofficial blogs:www.blogforamerica.comandwww.dailykos.com. The cost is minimal, and more than 180,000 are registered, with no doubt many more lurking. TV and radio advertising has hardly started.The campaign, and the blogs, are organised, dynamic and interactive. They're updated daily, if not hourly, and get the message across in a way that stimulates personal involvement, without the passivity of more traditional political advertising.Given the ever-decreasing voter turnout for elections, to have this many people putting their hands in their pockets so early in a campaign really shows how political activism is being invigorated by blogging.Dr Peter RoperBrookeville, MarylandLink itToday I clicked on a link from guardian.co.uk which promised to spirit me away to the Google bomb article (The war on the web, 10 July). I ended up on the Online main page, with no immediate sign of the article. When one clicks on a link, one expects to be taken to the article, not merely to another indexed page. Don't get me wrong. Yours is the best newspaper website. But your "linking" issue gets my y-fronts in a knot.M Colville-AndersenCopenhagen
Wide-FiIntel is developing a chip that could improve "last-mile" broadband systems by replacing ADSL and cable links with wireless. The new chips will support the broadband wireless access (BWA) or 802.16a standard, approved in January. At present, Wi-Fi wireless links are mainly limited to local hotspots, the area surrounding wireless access points, which then connect by wire to internet services. BWA systems - which will carry a Wi-Max logo to indicate interoperability - have a range up to 48km (30 miles) at a throughput of 70Mbps. They could be used to extend the connection to telephone exchanges from the current 6km radius.http://www.intel.com/pressroom/High bandBoeing's plan to bring broadband internet access to airlines took off with the announcement of waveband allocation by the controlling body, the International Telecommunications Union (ITU). Boeing wants to become the main internet access provider for worldwide airlines: it has launched an experimental system called Connexion, which has attracted attention from BA, Lufthansa and Scandinavian Airlines. The ITU decision to allocate the 14GHz to 14.5GHz band for aircraft-to-satellite links means passengers will be able to share a broadband connection while in transit. Limited experimentation will continue this year with major roll-outs expected next year.CA insourceComputer Associates claims that outsourcing is a lock-in, and revealed its alternative proposition for on-demand computing at the CA World user confer ence this week. The company plans to help companies bill their business units for IT according to usage. Rather than charging for the number of seats, or users, within a department, CA's software can charge IT usage as an itemised, monthly bill. The system is based on a central inventory database with additional tools, codenamed Sonar, to help view them as elements of business processes. Sonar can use this information to align the IT provision with business impact so that maintenance and support can be prioritised.www3.ca.com/pressData riskQuantum, a back-up storage specialist, is warning European small businesses that they are facing huge financial losses because of their inadequate storage strategies. In a white paper compiled for Quantum by research company Winmark, the failure of stagnant budgets to meet the increased requirements for data storage and back-up is testing IT manager confidence to the limit. More than 150 companies were surveyed in the UK, France and Germany, and about a third were less than 75% confident in their capacity to back up systems. Half the companies with more than 250 terabytes of data or more than 250 employees had less than 90% confidence in their back-up practices.EasyEmailSubscribers to EasyJet's email newsletter will have to re-register if they want to leave it, as a result of a new service the airline introduced last week. This allows passengers to view their bookings, and EasyJet introduced a password protection system, given the personal nature of such information.However, this means that anyone who subscribed to the email newsletter of either EasyJet or Go, which EasyJet took over in May last year, before passwords were added, will need to re-register to update their profiles - even if they want to stop receiving the newsletter.Open source EUGovernments should use open source software and open standards to allow their IT systems to be connected to others across the EU, according to a new European Commission paper. It suggests that a European interoperability framework under development should be used by all levels of government, as well as by businesses dealing with the public sector.Italy has made e-government a theme for its six-month presidency of the EU. The European commissioner responsible, Erkki Liikanen, told a conference last week that pan-EU e-government would support European citizenry and the single market, as it would help people and businesses relocate and trade anywhere in the EU.http://europa.eu.int/ISPO/ida/export/files/en/1523.pdfwww.kablenet.com
Every week, security analysts put out new lists of vulnerabilities, and operating system and application vendors deliver appropriate patches and fixes. But how should IT departments go about deploying these patches? It doesn't really matter whether it's Unix or Windows; a lot of work needs to be done before patches are installed and businesses systems stop being vulnerable.Security is often seen as a cost, not a benefit, but that's not the best way to understand what managing security means to a business. Peter Key, of Cap Gemini Ernst &amp; Young, describes it as similar to paying insurance premiums. Businesses need to undertake a risk analysis, looking at their IT systems, understanding the value flowing through them, and examining the cost to the business if an exploit shuts them down. This process should lead to a plan showing just what needs to be managed, and how.Some systems will need to be patched as soon as a security fix is released, while others can be left until an appropriate point in their maintenance cycle. It is even possible that some systems won't need to be patched, if the associated risks are low enough.Most businesses focus on securing their perimeters, using firewalls and virus scanners to make sure their networks and computers remain secure. As email is now one of the main sources of malicious software intrusions, tools such as Sophos' Enterprise Manager are an important feature of any security architecture, allowing you to deploy the latest updates centrally. However, no firewall is perfect, and not all attacks come from outside your business - so it is essential to make sure that internal   systems are as secure as possible.Part of the problem is that there are so many patches. A business running several different desktop and server operating systems, along with a substantial number of applications, may find itself having to deal with dozens of different patches and updates a week - more if a significant security vulnerability has been discovered. In some cases, a single vulnerability may affect many different systems, as happened recently when a problem with the SNMP network management protocol was discovered.Before you deploy a patch, it needs to be tested fully. While most patches are tested before they are distributed, there could still be effects on your applications. There are issues here for all sizes of businesses - small and medium enterprises tend not to have the resources to manage testing and deploying security patches, while larger businesses often have too many machines to manage effectively. Full testing means implementing duplicate installations of critical systems, along with appropriate test cases to run before a patch gets a clean bill of health. It is a process that can take a considerable amount of time, increasing the risk of vulnerabilities being exploited: hackers often target recently announced insecurities   because they know testing and deploying fixes takes time.Bill Pepper, of Computer Sciences Corporation, points out another significant problem for UK and European businesses trying to stay on top of security vulnerabilities: time zones. Patch notifications put out during US working hours will all be waiting in system managers' inboxes first thing in the morning. It is essential to build a process for managing patches, and prioritising which should be tested and deployed first.One option is to use a vulnerability scanning tool to keep track of what needs patching. These can be simple, such as Microsoft's free Baseline Security Analyser, which scans Windows PCs and servers for known issues, and checks they have had the latest fixes and patches installed. This was developed for Microsoft by a third party, Shavlik Technologies, which produces more complex enterprise-level tools like HFNetChk Pro, to scan and update operating systems and applications on large networks of computers (there's also a free "Lite" version that works for up to 50 PCs). Security specialists such as ISS and VIGILANTe also provide vulnerability scanning tools that report on known attacks and what needs to be done to prevent them.Ironically, the number of security issues with Microsoft offerings means more tools have been developed to deal with the problem. While Windows managers can take advantage of Microsoft's Windows update tools, things aren't as easy for Linux system administrators. Package management tools built into most distributions help you update servers, but it is not particularly easy to monitor many different mailing lists (or to justify spending all day logged into   Slashdot) to find out just what updates are needed.One option, for Red Hat users, is a subscription to the Red Hat Network. Starting at $96 per server per year, this buys you update notifications that can trigger automatic updates. System administrators can use proxy tools to manage the patches for their servers, as well as managing groups of servers. Other tools allow you to schedule updates to avoid affecting business operations, or to build a workflow to make sure patches are tested before being deployed.You can use security patches with management tools like IBM's Tivoli, or Computer Associates Unicenter   TNG, but this approach requires investment and development. It is a process that will also require locked-down desktop PCs, so you have full control of configurations and can ensure that unintended interactions are kept to a minimum.Managing security patches is an important part of a business's security policies and procedures. It is also one of the hardest. As patches are system specific, there is no real cross platform standard for describing or deploying them. Until patch management becomes part of standard systems management, keeping systems secure will remain complex, time consuming - and essential.
A computer firm once proposed a novel way of charging the NHS for a maternity IT system. It would install the computers free, but receive a fee for every baby born at the hospital.That was in an early flush of enthusiasm over private finance initiatives (PFI). Fortunately, wiser counsel has prevailed. The company soon realised that the birthrate was completely outside its control. Even worse, payment by results would create a clear incentive for the health authority to save money by shifting births to hospitals not on the system. The project's main goal, to capture better information about births, would soon be thwarted.An extreme example, but it illustrates the difficulty of paying for   government IT projects through PFI deals. This week, after 10 years of trying to make the process work, the Treasury announced that no new IT projects would be funded through PFI. (Existing projects, and those "on the point of signature" will still go ahead.)Yet the government seems as committed as ever to PFI funding for schools, hospitals and other infrastructure. What's different about IT? Quite a lot, experience has shown. IT projects are difficult and expensive to fund privately because they are highly risky and lack an obvious revenue stream.The whole point of the PFI is to transfer risk. The scheme was originally designed to pay for projects such as toll bridges, at which the government was notoriously slow. It made a lot of sense: if contractors make money only after the   bridge or road is open, they have a strong incentive to do it on time.With IT projects, the risk is less transferrable and the revenues, in consequence, become harder to identify. Revenue streams are usually based on organisational savings, which are often out of the IT contractor's ability to achieve: a change in the government's policy can make the whole business plan obsolete overnight.These difficulties mean that PFI IT contracts are hugely complex. On average, PFI procurements take 18 months from the initial advertisement to the contract signature - in the NHS, they have frequently taken longer. Many procurements have broken down after months of negotiations because the customer and the contractor cannot agree on the transfer of risk.Finally, if the whole thing does go pear shaped, the contractor does not even have the residual value of the technology as an asset. A three-quarters-built hospital is worth at least the value of its site: a three-quarters-built IT system is almost worthless.All this means that banks charge a premium when funding IT projects, which means they are then always more expensive than conventionally funded ones.For years, the Treasury (and the IT industry) has said that this price is worth paying if systems are built on time. But, palpably, they are not. The story of delays is as old as the first big IT contract under the PFI, the national insurance recording system deal signed in 1995. The main surprise about this week's announcement is that it has taken so long to come.
How are record labels dealing with the file-sharing explosion?Obviously musicians need to get paid for the work they do, and both major and independent record companies need to make their money back. The plus side of it, though, is that it's potentially a great marketing tool. I support EMI's policy against it up to a point, but I also think it's important to understand the marketing strengths of the format. I have to admit that I have downloaded things from Limewirewww.limewire.com.Is Apple's iTunes a workable model for selling music online?TheiTunesstory so far is a total success. It seems as if Apple got it right, as it is integrated   totally from the shop through to the software on the computer and the hardware on the iPod.What about the Recording Industry Association of America's threat to sue file-sharers?If you victimise a few people, it can end up having a negative effect. Making examples of people doesn't necessarily mean that crime goes down. A lot of these things are gestures to make people feel as if something is being done. There's no question that it is having a negative effect on the record industry, but CD-burning has had a bigger impact - particularly in Europe where broadband still isn't as common as in the States.Broadband?I travel a lot in my work, so faster lines have liberated me from the office. All the things I need to check - be it mixes or artwork - people can now just email them to me or post them   on an FTP site. I used to have to get all that stuff faxed or couriered, so broadband has made that whole process faster and easier. It's given me a portable office and recording studio.Mac G5?I have mixed feelings as it sounds fantastic, but I only ever use a laptop. There will be a lot of stuff coming out that my G4 laptop won't be able to deal with. Hopefully, the G5 laptop won't be too far behind!Is usability often overlooked in website design?It's all about navigation to us - we have some really good things on the site but they are down a couple of levels. We have people designing some great sound toys for our new site but we want it to be more about making browsing easier and less about Flash or Shockwave tricks. We were actually the first record label in Britain to have a website.Favourite gadgets?I do have aPalmbut I tend to use my laptop, as I never got the hang of the Graffiti for writing things into the Palm. My iPod's saved me carrying hundreds of CDs around. When Moby presented his last album over a period of a year, he had about 20 CDs' worth of demos - iTunes makes that easier to keep track of!Favourite sites?I hate to be boring butwww.bbc.co.ukis great for streaming Radio 4 when you're abroad. There's a great sound construction toy atSoda. The musical-trainspotter in me enjoyswww.native-instruments.comandwww.ableton.com.Visit:www.mutehq.co.uk
Is your home computer distributing pornography - perhaps even child pornography? Your Windows-based PC may not hold any pornography at all, of course. But it could look as though it does, if it has been infected with a new Trojan called migmaf.Pornography, PayPal scams, spam and lots of other things could be passing through your PC without your knowledge. The texts and images may never be written to your hard drive, but anyone who tracks them back will find they come from the IP (Internet Protocol) address that identifies your computer. That could lead to your net access being blocked, your internet service provider (ISP) threatening to throw you off the net, or worse.At the moment, the risk is very low. Kevin Hogan, from Symantec's security response team in Dublin, says: "We've only received one file from a customer with this problem. I wouldn't want to overconcern people." Further, if your PC has migmaf, it was probably installed manually, so Hogan's message is: "Don't double-click or install programs if you don't know what they are. And if you're sent something called wingate.exe - the name of the Trojan file - don't run it."However, it's not hard to imagine migmaf, or something based on the same code, being distributed with a fast-infecting virus. When that happens, pornographic advertisements   and spam (unsolicited advertising messages) are going to become harder to stop. Joe Stewart, of Lurhq Corporation, says in his paper on migmaf that it "means the spammer has a complete end-to-end anonymous system for spam, and it lends itself well to the kind of scams already being seen" with regard to PayPal.Migmaf works as a reverse proxy, and its effect is to hide the real address of the web server that is the source of the pornography or spam. Instead of using its own address, the server uses yours, and your PC simply redirects the traffic.If someone used your PC as a porn server, you would notice it slow down under the weight of traffic. But these scammers are more sophisticated than that. It seems they use each PC for only 10 minutes before the job is passed to another compromised system. Using a series of proxy servers makes the real server a moving target and much harder for an ISP's spam-blockers to find and close down.Nobody knows who is responsible for this backdoor program. However, Stewart has noted that it checks for a Russian keyboard, and does not load if you have one. He also associates the scam with emails that often advertise Russian porn sites. That's why he called it "migmaf", for "migrant Mafia", with reference to organised crime in Russia.Detecting and removing migmaf should not be a problem: Hogan says   Symantec's Norton AntiVirus software was updated last Friday when the Trojan became public knowledge, and it should now be detected by programs from all the leading vendors. According to Stewart, it can be removed by deleting the wingate.exe file and the Registry key: Software\ Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\ Run\Login Service = wingate.exe.Graham Cluley, an antivirus expert from Sophos, says: "We recommend that you update your antivirus software and get yourself a personal firewall, especially if you've got a broadband internet connection."Free firewalls includeZone Alarmand theSygate Personal Firewall. The firewall should detect attempts to use TCP port 81, which migmaf uses to send spam via the infected PC.But "what's going on here is clearly illegal. If we had clear evidence that a particular group was behind it, the authorities would be able to act against them," says Cluley.MigmafJoe Stewartwww.lurhq.com/migmaf.htmlSymantec Backdoor.Migmafwww.symantec.com/avcenter/venc/data/backdoor.migmaf.htmlSophoswww.sophos.com/virusinfo/analyses/trojmigmafa.html
AOL is finally abandoning the Netscape Mosaic/Navigator browser, as I thought it would, but Mozilla, the open source version, is now being looked after by new non-profit foundation "funded in large part by a $2 million donation from AOL and $300,000 from Lotus founder Mitch Kapor," reportsCNet.Comment: It has been an expensive episode for AOL, which paid $4.2bn for Netscape. It did beta test Navigator as a replacement for IE in AOL, and tried it on CompuServe, but apparently users weren't keen. I just wish I'd thought of the foundation idea a couple of weeks ago when I was writing acolumnon the subject: that would have looked really prescient.Later.... And having finally read theMozilla press release, find I'm quoted in it....
Intel has posted fairly encouraging numbers at the start of a string of tech company quarterly financial results. Sales increased by 8% to $6.8 billion for the quarter -- not much, but better than a decline. Profits doubled to $896 million.Details
Psion Teklogix -- the Canadian company Psion bought -- has been using Windows CE as well as EPOC for some time, but in thisComputing column, long-time Psioneer (sic) Chris Partridge reckons it is dropping EPOC on the NetBook as well.Trivia point: EPOC stands for Electronic Piece Of Cheese... unless, of course, you know different.
The government announced yesterday that it is abandoning the use of private finance initiatives for computer projects after a string of blunders across Whitehall.High-profile PFI projects which have run into problems include new IT systems for the child support agency and the criminal records bureau.The u-turn emerged in a 130-page review of the PFI aimed at deflecting another barrage of criticism from unions and leftwing MPs at the Labour party conference this autumn.Future PFI projects will be restricted to large schemes after analysis suggested that high legal and financial costs make projects of less than &#163;20m poor value. New rules will be introduced to prevent private sector contractors from making savings by cutting workers' pay and conditions.But union officials said that anger over what they regard as creeping privatisation of core public services is unlikely to be defused by the stricter rules."We have been telling the government for years that the PFI doesn't provide value for money," said Kevin Curran, general secretary of the GMB. "The same problems they have identified in IT and small projects apply across the public sector." Dave Prentice, general secretary of Unison, said: "The report in no way satisfies our call, backed by last year's party conference, for an independent review of the PFI."The Treasury blames the complexity of introducing new technology rather than the PFI itself, pointing out that private sector IT projects frequently run into difficulties. American research shows that only 16% of new computer systems are delivered on time, to budget and to the client's specification.Officials insisted that the research showed the PFI was successful at delivering large infrastructure projects on time and to budget. "We are open-minded and non-dogmatic about these things," said a Treasury spokesman. "If the PFI works we will use it, if it doesn't we won't."Despite the failure of PFI for IT projects, the Treasury document showed that of the 563 deals closed to date, 89% of large projects were delivered on time or early. National audit office research showed that under conventional procurement procedures, 70% of large projects were delivered late.Paul Boateng, chief secretary to the Treasury, said: "The benefits of good procurement are not confined to those sectors where PFI is already well established, and new applications for PFI will be explored where existing evidence suggests it could deliver benefits - in social housing, urban regeneration and waste."
Yahoo! yesterday agreed to buy online advertising group Overture for $1.6bn (&#163;1bn), in the clearest signal yet that the internet sector is rebounding in confidence.The deal is part of an attempt by Yahoo! to seize back the initiative in the online search market from Silicon Valley phenomenon Google, and to cash in on one of the fastest growing revenue spinners on the internet.Overture is one of the leading companies offering paid-for search results to advertisers. The advertising commonly appears in small, classified-type boxes, under the headline "sponsored results", alongside the actual site listings from an online search.As more and more internet users have become accustomed to using search engines, the market has exploded. According to the investment bank Piper Jaffray, paid-for search advertising is expected to grow from $2bn this year to $5bn in 2006.Yahoo! is one of a handful of internet companies, also including eBay and Amazon.com, which have emerged robustly from the debris of the sector. Shares in all three have risen sharply this year, leading some to question whether investors are setting themselves up for a second fall.The broader Nasdaq market, where many hi-tech companies are traded, has also been enjoying a strong rally in recent months.Yahoo! has been working to diversify its revenues away from more conventional banner advertising after the market crashed with the dotcom boom's demise.In the past 18 months or so it has successfully introduced a series of subscription-based services. In its second quarter results last week, the company said it had 3.5m users paying for services such as personal advertisements or premium email accounts, compared with 2.9m in the previous quarter. Group-wide profits more than doubled to $50.8m.Conventional online advertising at Yahoo! is also growing again and was 44% higher than the same quarter last year, at $219m.Google, a pure search business, has become one of the best-known brand names on the internet in a matter of years, largely through word of mouth. The company is rumoured to be planning a stock market flotation that would be one of the most eagerly anticipated in the sector since the crash in 2000.Terry Semel, Yahoo! chief executive, said the acquisition was not about rivalling Google. "Our focus was not on any other company. It was about how we can offer the best range of services."He added: "&#91;Yahoo! &#93; is not just a search business but has many other ways to grow that Google is not involved in. This deal makes us quite a company."Earlier this year, Yahoo paid $279.5m for Inktomi, which provides search engine software.Advertisers in sponsored searches pay the owner of the search engine every time a user clicks on to their ad. To get on to a popular page, advertisers will bid against each other for prominence, pushing the fee still higher.Google has claimed that advertising clients get a 2% response rate from paid-for search results, about 10 times higher than a banner ad.Commonly, the fee paid by the advertiser is split between the website owner, such as Yahoo! and the firm that has sold the ad, in this case Overture. Last year, 14% of Yahoo's revenues came from its partnership with Overture.Yahoo! is paying 0.6 of a share and $4.75 in cash for each Overture share. It values Overture shares at about $24.41 each, a 13% premium to the closing price on Friday.In February, Overture acquired AltaVista, an early star of the internet that managed to lose its way, for $140m. AltaVista had begun as a pure, Google-style search engine and went through a series of transformations before returning to its roots. Analysts had questioned Overture's strategy in buying the site.
"Kazaa and Morpheus — two popular file-swapping services — had 15 percent fewer users during the week ending July 6, according to Nielsen/NetRatings. The decline translates to about 1 million fewer users on Kazaa," reportsAP. But it may not mean anything....
Westminster is to hold a world-first tonight, when around 120 bloggers descend on parliament for a discussion on how politicians can best use the "blogosphere" to further policy and public interaction.It is also believed to be the first time any national parliament has set up a wi-fi zone, although the security implications mean that the wireless internet zone will be dismantled after the meeting.Among the guests will be Britain's first MP to write a weblog, Tom Watson, and Stephen Pollard, one of the few Fleet Street political pundits to have embraced the web.James Crabtree, the organiser of the seminar and head of the Voxpolitics project, says the idea of the evening is not to evangelise the case for weblogs - a form of online diary and comment site with links - but to ask what they can do well, and what they are not useful for.He points out that as recently as 1995 only one MP had a website, and now they are universal, and predicts the same uptake for blogging."If you look at Tom Watson, six months ago nobody had heard of him. Now, if you type 'Labour MP' into Google, you get Tom Watson, not Tony Blair."This sort of gigantic cyberspace recognition is not directly translatable into votes and campaigning, believes Mr Crabtree, but many MPs' attention will have been caught by the stateside success of Democratic challenger Howard Dean, whose campaign - and donations - have caught fire thanks to a personal weblog.It is thought that half of the former Vermont governor's campaign funds have come from under-35s, excited by his personal blog.Mr Watson, the blogging Labour MP, sees the advent of the blog as a better way of engaging young people in politics, pointing out that while 500 of the great and the good may have turned out for Peter Mandelson's Progressive Governance conference at the weekend, the 120 bloggers who have turned up at little more than a week's notice for tonight's event will probably be younger and less party-political.Mr Crabtree agrees. "I guarantee that half the people there tonight will be under 25, and half will never have been to the Commons before" he says, proudly.Mr Watson has also set up a 24-hour blog challenge to coincide with Blogathon 2003, where he wants a wishlist for the government to be collated online, with one theme per hour. The results will be presented to the David Triesman, Labour's general secretary, for consideration for Labour's next manifesto.
It's got absolutely nothing to do with technology, apart from the fact it's on the web. Ooh - and it's on a weblog, so maybe we're OK :-). But if you fancy a chuckle this Monday morning, I suggest you head off down theRageboyparish of Chris Locke for his latest dissection of narcissic new age literature. Be warned: there's some strong language, should you be offended by that kind of thing.
'On our second date, Amy turned up on my doorstep armed with a chainsaw - she'd come to help me fix a fallen tree in my yard. I looked at this beautiful 6ft redhead, and I thought yes, she's perfect,' says Jason, a 28-year-old artist from Austin, Texas.Jason met his girlfriend, Amy, a landscape gardener, through his old roommate, Lauren, who now lives in New York. Lauren was at college with Kevin, a San Francisco-based designer, who grew up with Steve, now a waiter, in Austin, who is best friends with Amy. Jason has never met Kevin, nor Steve, but managed to find his perfect mate through them none the less, with a little help from Friendster.com.This new networking website has gained a cult following in the States, and is rapidly attracting users over here (launched in March, the site has more than 900,000 users, and is increasing at a rate of 20 per cent every week).The site works like this: you join Friendster and post your profile online. You then invite your friends to join up. In turn, they invite their friends, too, and so you connect to a network of new people who are up to three degrees of separation away from you. Assuming you have 20 friends, who have 20 separate friends, who in turn have 20 others - that's already 8,000 people you're instantly linked to.Friendster's brilliance is that it makes online cruising relatively safe and stigma-free. This is especially important in the UK, where internet dating doesn't enjoy the same level of respectability that it does in the States.Removing the embarrassment factor is key to the site's success. Founder and CEO Jonathan Abrams explains: 'In the past, someone would sign up for a dating site, and hope that their friends and co-workers would never find out. I thought I'd turn that upside down and create a site where people would deliberately invite their friends.'Friendster's multilayered and collaborative environment is appealing to a new breed of singles. 'It's the first online communication service to break down those walls that make people think online dating is an activity relegated to the desperate and ugly,' says Michael, a handsome writer from Brooklyn who uses the site. The pressure-free arena for flirtation has succeeded in attracting a diverse user base, with an average age of 27.In addition to linking to your circle of friends, you can write testimonials for each other. If someone you trust writes a glowing testimonial about someone whose profile you fancy, it acts as a stamp of approval.The flipside to this transparency is that when relationships turn sour, having full details of your ex's social life available at the click of a mouse can be painful. Jenny, a 26-year-old copywriter from London, split up acrimoniously from Tony, her boyfriend in New York, a few months ago. 'I cut off all contact with him. It wasn't like I was going to bump into him in the street. But then, one of our mutual friends connected to me on Friendster and, in a matter of hours, Tony's photo was up online and suddenly the whole break-up seemed very raw again.'Over the next few weeks, I found myself unable to avoid looking at his developing profile. Girls started commenting on how sexy he was. At first, I was jealous - I could see from their photos and interests that they were very much his type. My friends told me to stop looking at the site but I had a morbid fascination with keeping tabs on who he was sleeping with.'Then, after reading one testimonial that talked about him attempting to get off with five friends of the same girl, I realised that I was lucky to be rid of him. Bizarrely, I think Friendster helped me get over him.'Friendster opens up new gateways for exacting an unpleasant revenge. For example, at the click of a mouse, you can expose embarrassing intimacies to all your partner's friends. This darker side of bringing the world closer together is reflected in the fact that prank sites 'Fiendster' and 'Enemyster' have now been set up, too.Is Friendster the perfect way to match-make? Yes and no, say users. However well you get on online, there has to be a physical chemistry when you finally meet up. At the same time, the couples who seem to have the most successful relationships often meet through mutual acquaintances.As Abrams points out, having an extra level of information about a prospective partner can only help. And if you're looking for a red-haired beauty wielding a chainsaw, you may have more luck virtually, through friends of friends of friends, than you would at the local All Bar One.
The Washington Postreports that: "AOL this month began showing demos of its tools for creating Web logs, or blogs, to veteran bloggers. AOL has dubbed its service 'AOL Journals' because its surveys showed that members found the word 'blogs' confusing, said Rick Robinson, AOL's vice president for community products."Note: the article mentions that AOL has 34 million members, which is true. However, each account can have up to five "screen names" and the same account is typically used by different members of the same family using different screen names. So 34m members is not 34m users. I'd guess it is at least 50m, and it could be 100m.
As Neil mentioned last Sunday (below): BLOG RULE -- Can Weblogs Change Politics?, A VoxPolitics Seminar, is being held tomorrow (14th July) at 5:30 - 7.00pm in Committee Room 11, First Floor Committee Corridor, House of Commons. Speakers include Steven Clift, e-democracy expert, Stephen Pollard, Blogging Journalist, Pernille Rudlin, Mobile expert, Tom Watson MP, Blogging MP, and James Crabtree , Chair. You have to write to blogrule@voxpolitics.com ("we need your full name, organisations / blog, and e-mail to get you in"). Details are atVoxpolitics.
I would not have spent more than 15 seconds atDaringfireball.net, if my colleague Neil McIntosh had not linked to it (below). I actually spent almost a minute there, but it was painful. Normally I wouldn't mention this -- most Web site design is rubbish -- but author John Gruber clearly does know something about it, and is very critical of other sites. What is really depressing is this bit:"This web site, Daring Fireball, exemplifies almost everything I know about web design. This is pretty close to the best that I can do. Everything you see is there for a reason. Everything you don't see is not there for a reason. Every decision was made with one goal in mind: making this a better web site for you, the reader."Well, John, here's a couple of ways to make it much better for me, the reader.First, it suffers from poor legibility. Like many millions of spectacle wearers, I find reversed-out text hard to read in quantity, and your point size is too small to be comfortable. I can solve the reversed out problem by hitting Ctrl-A, but View|Text Size|Larger has no effect on your text. This is fundamentally bad design and shows a marked failure to understand the way the Web works. I'm the reader: I know which client I'm using: I should be able to decide how to view your site. Sites that don't let me change the size of the text, or flow it into a different shape, are inherently badly broken.Second, it is badly organised. I can't see any rational reason for sticking 5,000 words on a single screen, and obliging every unfortunate to download them just to read the first couple of sentences as a taster. (What if I'd been using a Palm on a dial-up line, or a mobile phone?) What is even more ludicrous is that this is ostensibly a five-part piece. I'd expect a Web-savvy schoolchild to have figured out a much more user-friendly design: offer five little headings with precis of the parts and let the reader click to read them on separate pages.Now, I coped with Daring Fireball's flaws in the usual way: by copying the text into Word and changing it to a legible font. But I shouldn't have to do that.I'm sure John's site looks great to John's eyesight when viewed on John's screen. But it is another failure of understanding to assume we all have the same eyesight, or the same sort of screen. It's the fundamental mistake of designing Web sites to suit yourself, not your readers. There are lots of users out here aged from less than 5 to more than 95, a lot of us have poor eyesight (or none at all), and a lot of us are using small or different types of screen. We're supposed to be able to use the Web, too.Now, if you want to know what a really well designed Web site looks like, pop over to Jakob Nielsen'sUse It. Superficially it does not look as tasteful, of course, but that's the trap. If you don't understand why that site is incomparably better, then you are not really a Web designer at all. You are, rather, a print designer who has simply stumbled into a business you really don't understand.
Hackers, possibly based in Russia, have hijacked the computers of unsuspecting internet users for pornographic websites. Researchers believe more than 1,000 computers have been taken over.Internet users are accustomed to junk emails which are now sent out from hijacked internet addresses. But this new form of hacking uses the computer as the actual website."Here people are sort of involved in the porno business and don't even know it," computer researcher Richard Smith told the New York Times. The method allows porn site operators to hide their identity.Pornographers increasingly face being shut down by service providers following complaints about the explicit material and even risk prosecution, making the use of unwitting participants attractive."There's no individual computer to shut down," said Mr Smith, who has been tracking the scheme. "We're dealing with someone here who is very clever."People who use high-speed internet connections are the most vulnerable, he said. By monitoring the traffic to porn adverts, he had already found 1,000 computers affected.The system is complex. The hacker employed by the porn site will plant a program that advertises explicit material for people to buy over the net. The hijacked computers may advertise this pornographic material for only a few moments, making detection more difficult. Potential customers, having found the site during a trawl for pornography, will sign up as members and give their credit card details for payment. The hacker gets paid a percentage.Credit card details thus obtained could be used for fraud purposes. One advantage of getting a porn user's card details is that they are less likely to complain to the authorities if defrauded, particularly if the sites contain illegal activities.In the US, using someone else's computer could breach the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act. The enormous rise in pornography-related junk email has already led to new plans for legislation, with California leading the way and planning to allow recipients of such spam to sue the sender.No one has yet been identified as the brains behind the scheme, although organised crime in Russia has developed similar techniques in the past.
Some recent stories on porn spam being sent from personal PCs have been a bit short of technical detail, but Paul Roberts of the IDG News Service fingers"migmaf". You can read Joe Stewart's interesting paper on that athttp://www.lurhq.com/migmaf.html.
Forget drink or drugs: computer games are being targeted as the latest dangerous addiction.The government of Thailand is now so worried about the rise of online games addiction that it is set to impose a curfew on gamers, banning them from using games servers between 10pm and 6am.The unprecedented measures follow increasing pressure from parents and politicians in Thailand to protect young children from the dangers of excessive online game playing.The ban is due to be implemented during a trial period between July 15 and September 30, and will also curb the business hours of internet cafes.Ragnarok Online, the Korean online role-playing game, was highlighted by Thai authorities as being a cause for concern. Subscriptions to the game have reached more than 500,0000 in Thailand alone, with growth also on the increase in Japan and Korea.However, this is not something unique to Asian-Pacific gamers, as the flourishing popularity of online games such as EverQuest, Anarchy Online and Dark Age of Camelot have been causing concerns in the west for several years.As most gamers will admit, it is all too easy to get sucked into a game and, hours later, still find yourself glued to your computer keyboard.What makes online games particularly addictive is that players can create their own alternate universe, in which they get to virtually live another life in a fantasy setting, amongst a community of other players.In an interview with ZDNet, Dennis Bennett, a network engineer from Indiana, explained how his obsession with EverQuest almost ruined his life."I ceased being me," admitted Bennett. "I became Madrid, the great shaman of the north. Thinking of it now, I almost cringe: it's so sad."I'd say that the most addictive part for me was definitely the gain of power and status, the way in which, as you progressively gain power, you become more of an object of awe to the other players ... each new skill isn't enough."However, before you start cutting the broadband cable, it is worth remembering that this is an extreme case. All most gamers will suffer as a result of their hobby is a bit of fatigue and occasional bad hygiene.Having said this, it seems sensible that young children should be protected from becoming too attached to gaming but, as with past fears over the violent nature of some computer games, parental intervention is usually the best method of nipping potential problems in the bud.Thailand's draconian stance may help to curb the problem in the short term, but ultimately it is punishing the many for the actions of the few.Scott McDaniel,  vice-president of marketing for Sony Online Entertainment, the publishers of EverQuest, says that the common sense of players should be the prevailing factor."I guess our standpoint is the same as for all kinds of products: you have to be responsible in using it," he told ZDNet. "You don't see disclaimers when you get in a car saying 'don't run over people'."People have to exhibit their own good sense and, if they have kids, they need to pay attention to what they are doing."But, if you find yourself still hooked into a virtual life at 4am, trust me: you're probably better off getting some sleep and a bar of chocolate.&#183;Top 10 games (all platforms, compiled by ELSPA)1) Tomb Raider: the Angel of Darkness (PS2, PC) Adios Interactive - £34.992)	Eyetoy: Play (PS2) Sony - £39.993) SOCOM: US Navy Seals (PS2) Sony - £49.994)	Enter the Matrix (PS2, GC, XB, PC) Atari - £39.995) The Sims: Superstar (PC) Electronic Arts - £17.996)	Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (PC, PS2) Take 2 - £29.997) Starsky &amp; Hutch (PS2, Xbox, PC) Empire Interactive- £37.998) HULK (PS2, Xbox, GC, PC) VU Games - £39.999) World Championship Snooker 2003 (PS2, Xbox) Codemasters £39.9910) Midnight Club II (PS2, Xbox) Take 2 - £34.99
Taken a peek round the back of your latest consumer electronics purchase? There's a chance that in among the Scarts and the audio connections you'll notice a new socket lurking. For a growing number of products now sport an Ethernet socket to enable them to connect to a home network.Manufacturers of consumer electronics and PCs share a vision of the future wherein all the devices in a home are linked together in one, almost certainly wireless, system. The arrival of the Ethernet socket in the consumer electronics world is the first tentative step towards that goal. It enables hi-fis, DVD players and games consoles not only to access information from other devices in the system, but also to harness broadband internet connections. Some devices use the net for garnering information - others to enable the user to contact other people.By far the highest profile non-computer product to launch with Ethernet sockets has been the games console the X-Box. By running a connection from the Ethernet socket to a broadband router users can access the innovative X-Box live service. Using this system, which requires an outlay of around £35 for an upgrade kit, gamers can play multiplayer games on the internet and, via the X-Box communicator, chat to their rivals while they play.Another high profile product that sports an Ethernet connection is a Philips hi-fi system, the Streamium. This connects to a router to offer streaming of internet radio stations as well as allowing the user to access MP3 and other music files stored on their PCs. Rival products such as Turtle Beach's AudioTron also sport Ethernet connections.Yet the place where Ethernet connection could potentially be of most benefit to the consumer is on a DVD player. Earlier this year the Danish company KISS Technology debuted the DP-500, a DVD player with an Ethernet connection. Once users had negotiated the slightly tricky set-up procedure they could use the DVD unit to hear MP3 music files and see jpeg image files via their TV. Even more usefully, the system could stream mpeg4 files, the most popular type of compressed video format, to the DVD player and on to a screen. This enabled users not only to watch camcorder footage they edited on their PC but also to see video files they had downloaded using peer-to-peer software such as KaZaa. Philips has a similar video-streaming product due out later in the year, while in the US Gateway has unveiled an Ethernet-enabled DVD player that retails for less than £150.The fundamental problem facing all these devices concerns where Britons place their PCs or broadband internet routers. Chances are they are kept in the study many metres away from other devices in the living room, and running a cable between the two devices can be problematic.The obvious solution is to integrate the device within a wireless system. Presuming a person has already installed a router and wireless access point, the key device they need to buy is a wireless Ethernet bridge. In theory this small device (a little bigger than a matchbox and sporting an aerial) connects to the DVD, hi-fi or games console and then without any further tweaking adds the secondary device to the network.Well, that's the theory. I got myself a Netgear ME101 bridge, hooked it up to my Philips Streamium and rather cynically expected it not to work the first time. Unbelievably the £60 device proved to be completely plug-and-play. I was expecting at least to have to install a CD-Rom, key in an IP address or delve into configuration menus. Yet instantaneously I was able to tune into my favourite radio stations via my 802.11b wireless network. The antenna seems fairly sensitive and it performs at higher levels than say an 802,11b PC card in a laptop. If you have an X-Box, or even a Streamium, the ME101, or a device like it, really is a very worthwhile investment.Of course the rather paltry data transfer speed of 802.11b - quoted as 11mbps, but in reality more like 2mbps - is not fast enough to stream video, so the Kiss player does not yet work wirelessly. As the new 802.11g standard, which offers 54mbps data transfer rate and will work with video, establishes itself we should see more and more of these intelligent DVD player devices. Both Netgear and its rival Linksys have announced wireless Ethernet bridges for 802.11g systems and these are now arriving in the UK.Philips also has several products due to launch in the autumn that will wirelessly stream video over an 802.11g network. The time when those video files on your PC are accessible on your TV over a network really isn't that far way.
The latest post atDaringfireball.net(a favourite weblog whichreally willget added to the list of links, eventually) starts with a great story - which proves the link between men's wigs and web design. "The problem is that when men buy hairpieces, they demand too much hair. I.e. it is possible to do a very convincing job with a hairpiece that makes you look balding rather than bald, but it is not possible to create a convincing hairpiece that makes it look as though you have a full head of hair.... [but] a good hairpiece costs a lot of money, and for a lot of money, the customer wants to see a lot of hair."This story stuck with me because it epitomizes the problems in any designer-client relationship."Fantastic story. And the rest of the post (it's quite long) is well worth a read too.
Would most people rather have dinner with 27-year-old Hollywood actress Charlize Theron or lunch with a 72 year old man from Omaha, Nebraska? When the man in question is Warren Buffett, the legendary investor, he wins apparently wins hands down.An eBay auction for lunch with Mr Buffett had yesterday attracted a top bid of $105,100 as a midnight deadline approached in New York. A similar charity auction for dinner with Ms Theron, now starring in the remake of The Italian Job, was a snip by comparison at $43,200, won, incidentally, by a man in California.The lunch will take place in New York with up to eight guests between May 5 and 14 next year.A venue has not been named, but bidders will no doubt hope for something a little swankier than Gorat's, the no-nonsense steakhouse patronised by Mr Buffett in Omaha. Despite being worth $30bn, he famously leads a modest life style.Proceeds from the auction will go toward a San Francisco-based charity called the Glide Foundation, which provides services to homeless people.A spokesman for eBay said charities turned to the online auction platform to reach a wider audience. "It enables them to go beyond their traditional mailing list or local backers," he said.With 12 hours to go, the auction had attracted 120 bids and was being led by mysterious eBay user pabrai. EBay will not disclose the identity of its members.For those who cannot quite afford to compete for lunch with the sage of Omaha, then there are alternatives. A number of auctions are running offering a date with Warren Buffett fans.Elliot B. describes himself as a 28-year-old "nice guy" who "could use some cash". The lunch, he notes, "is Dutch, meaning you pay your half and I pay mine". The top bid so far was $6.50.Mr Buffett fell from favour during the dotcom boom for his aversion to hi-tech stocks. But his "old fashioned" method of investing in companies for the long term has since won him new fans. He favours firms like Coca-Cola, which make products he says he understands and uses.His annual meeting in Omaha attracts tens of thousands people from across the world who come to hear him speak and to mingle at one of the weekend's events.
NEC has unveiled "the world's first prototype of a mobile-phone that can be used to view terrestrial digital television broadcasting, paving the way for new services combining broadcasting and mobile communications," according to the Wall Street Journal [paid sub required]. "The Japanese electronics maker said it aims to commercially launch the product in 2005, although it is unclear when broadcasting for mobile terminals will be available in Japan." Currently the phone can show an hour of continuous television, but the aim is for it to run for one hour of TV and also have one hour of talk-time.Comment: this is a world first apart from the Samsung TV-phone blogged here a month ago (below) with a link to the IDG News story:Samsung Phone Adds TV Reception.
CNetreports that Sun, which historically has been the biggest backer of the Unix operating system, was actually the first to sign a deal with SCO, the company claiming that Unix code has been directly copied into Linux. "SCO also granted Sun a warrant to buy as many as 210,000 shares of SCO stock at $1.83 per share as part of the licensing deal."Comment: CNet fails to mention that, logically, this must mean that Sun took the lead in "bankrolling" the attack on Linux, ahead of Microsoft and any other companies who may yet negotiate deals with SCO. What are the conspiracy theorists going to make of that?
The scale of the Japanese Xbox disaster is clear from figures published atSPONG, which give the Xbox a miserable 1.6% market share for the past six months: it is trounced by the GameCube and even the Sony PSOne. Apart from the Japanese buyer's antipathy to most American consumer electronics products, the Xbox's shortage of local games software is probably the killer. No wonder Microsoft had been angling to buy the number one Japanese games company, Square. (In 1999, Square was reportedly willing to sell 40% of the company to Microsoft for $2.5 billion, but two years later sold 19% to Sony for $125 million.)
"Dell led the desktop PC category for the 12th time in 13 years, scoring an A-plus," according to PC Magazine's annual satisfaction survey of 18,000 subscribers. "Meanwhile, HP and Compaq desktops both got an E -- the lowest possible grade -- along with those by Acer Inc, eMachines Inc and NEC Corp," reportsAP.
Upgrades are a fact of modern life, but now it seems that absolutely everything we've taken for granted as fixed technology is being uprooted. Terrestrial television is turning digital, as is domestic radio; cell phones are moving to 3G and laptops now include Bluetooth and Wi-Fi. If it had a radio circuit before, it's being ripped out and replaced with something new and, if it didn't, it's getting one. Everything is being connected, digitised, upgraded, beefed up, accelerated and meshed, and the trusty radio and television sets we have today will be useless in a few years.All this progress presents a problem. Any change in the technology, from, say, ordinary TV to digital terrestrial, requires a whole new radio circuit. Receiving and understanding the signal means using electronic devices designed for that particular signal - which is why your television is not a cellphone. All this upgrading, however, is expensive for both the user and the service provider. Furthermore, it is creating huge problems for the emergency services and the military, where differing budgets and upgrade cycles means that their radios can't talk to each other - with potentially fatal consequences.The answer may well soon be here. In a positive move, the first handheld software radio was unveiled in Washington in May. Instead of specialist radio hardware, a software radio uses a simple receiver to throw the entire   contents of a range of frequencies into computer memory, where software - and not hardware - does the signal processing. Vanu Inc, based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, took an ordinary, off-the-shelf Hewlett-Packard iPaq personal digital assistant and, using only a simple radio receiver and an upgrade to the Linux operating system, was able to demonstrate the device working as an FM radio.An expensive way to listen to Radio 4, for certain, but it is the first step in solving the real problems of cost and incompatibility. The original attempt to fix this involved a technology called software defined radio. This uses expensive digital signal processors (DSP), and a special type of chip that can be programmed to change its own wiring, to achieve the desired effect. But that is expensive technology, and not very easy to work with: the DSPs, for example, each have their own internal workings that must be mastered, and by the time you have done that, there is a newer, better DSP on the market.Software radio, on the other hand, uses ordinary PC technology to achieve the same result. By taking advantage of the yearly increases in processor speed, a software radio can use a very basic receiver to throw everything it can hear into memory, and then have ordinary commodity hardware and standard programming languages process the signal. Technology that 15 years ago could never have handled the large amount of arithmetic needed is now perfectly   capable. It is also getting cheaper and more powerful every year, and because it is all written in standard computer languages, techniques learnt today do not go out of date.With a software-defined radio circuit, building in the ability to talk with many different types of radio circuit becomes a programming issue, and not a physical limitation. As new standards are developed, it will no longer be necessary to buy new equipment. In the future, a downloadable patch is all you will need to upgrade your television, radio, or mobile phone to the next standard.This is already the case for industrial equipment. Vanu Inc ships mobile phone base stations that run on ordinary PC equipment, which can be changed between standards as the operator sees fit. The average   commercial lifespan of a mobile phone base station is 10 years - so by using software radio equipment, the network operator need not worry about how much a new cellphone standard will cost to roll out. Given that all the base stations are networked together anywhere, one guy with a laptop can upgrade the lot. Since a software radio can listen to multiple standards at the same time, the potential is there for a specialist rural company to provide base station services, expanding coverage across more remote areas.This, of course, makes the market much more interesting. Although the founder of Vanu Inc, Vanu Bose, says he thinks that while software radio mobile phone handsets are three to five years out, once they arrive, the potential for a national phone network to jump from new standard to   new standard without too much fuss is greatly increased - but without the associated handset churn. In other words, whereas now the power in the phone market is all with the handset manufacturers, whose embrace, or not, of any new network feature decides its fate, come software defined phones. The network will be able to upgrade their services en masse, without having to wait for Nokia or Ericsson to come on board. This is not just a matter of transmission standards, either: while switching from GSM to 3G to 4G and beyond suddenly got a lot easier, the inherent ability of software-defined devices to upgrade their software via the network itself means that upgrades to the user interface, to the features of the phone itself, could become much simpler to provide.Vanu Inc is not the only    one working on this, of course. Intel, the chip manufacturer, is well aware of the advantages of the idea - and of its place in making it happen. The company has done extensive research, as has the free software community - the code behind the GnuRadio project is freely downloadable from its site (www.gnu.org/software/gnuradio/gnuradio.html).This Free Software approach has many people worried. Software radio transmitters have the potential to allow anyone, with cheap PC equipment and an antenna, to set up their own radio or television stations. Low powered and low budget, for sure, but this is another case of technology overtaking the regulations.Currently, the frequency bands used by television and radio are heavily regulated. The justification is that there is finite space for different stations, or else they will interfere with each other. In the era of software radio, many people think this is nonsense: when both the transmitters and the receivers can be instantly upgraded to increasingly improved transmission standards, interference ceases to be a problem.In fact, many people believe that interference itself is a concept used as an excuse for the poor equipment of the past century. David Reed, the technologist and co-author of the paper that defined the architecture of the internet, toldSalon.com: "There's no scarcity of spectrum any more than there's a scarcity of the colour green. We could instantly hook up to the internet everyone who can pick up a radio signal, and they could pump through as many bits as they could ever want. We'd go from an economy of digital scarcity to an   economy of digital abundance."This presents an interesting problem for the regulatory bodies in charge of the frequency bands. Whereas their work was previously defined by a concept of scarcity - that there were only a few frequencies, and that these need to be bid for and carefully licensed - technology such as software radio, and the techniques you can use when you have it, is proving this assumption completely false. The capacity of a frequency band is, in fact, plentiful.This puts the incumbent broadcast authorities in a bit of a pickle. The real estate of their assigned (and paid for) frequency allocation loses its value. If, technically, all a newcomer has to do to start broadcasting terrestrial television is to provide a URL, most likely within the signal itself, to a place the TV can download the correct patch - a patch to enable the TV to receive a method of transmission that does not interfere with existing broadcasts - then why do we need to regulate these bands at all? Why should a mobile phone network pay billions of pounds for a slice of spectrum, when software radio, and its associated technologies, would allow thousands of networks to use the same band without interfering. If the capacity of the ether can be made plentiful, why can't you or I have our own TV or radio station?For industries based on either scarcity of frequencies, or the need to continually replace our equipment, software radio is a nightmare. For the rest of us, however, it will mean greater choice, cheaper gear and faster-moving technology.online.feedback@guardian.co.uk
"A person who touches some metal parts in the back of the laptop might feel a slight electric shock when the dial tone goes off while using the modem," according to spokesman Shigenori Fujita. Sony is recalling two models, the Vaio FRV25 and FRV27, which went on sale in May. Sony shipped 13,000 in Japan, 3,000 in the United States and 2,000 in Europe."The recall of the laptops, Sony's mainstay product along with Walkman devices and the Vega TV series, comes on top of its recall of some 40,000 desktop PCs in Japan, the United States and Canada due to defective supply parts since late last year."Sony is the world's sixth-largest PC vendor, holding about 2 to 3 percent of the worldwide market in the second quarter of last year. It shipped 3.1 million Vaio PCs globally in the year to March 2003. In Japan, Sony was the third-biggest PC maker, shipping 1.52 million PCs in 2002 and holding a market share of 13.5 percent, says the Reuters reporthere.
Adopted and fostered children in Liverpool can research their past and find out about their birth parents on a website developed by the city council.Children using the Lifecard website, said to be the first of its kind in the world, can watch video clips from their birth parents, social workers, teachers and people who knew them as babies.They will be able to find pictures of themselves as babies, their own vaccination records and family tree. There is also an interactive diary page.There is a special section that adopted or fostered young people can only access once they are 18. This is for children whose parents do not want them to learn their identity until they reach maturity.The site includes case studies of research compiled by adopted and fostered children, a discussion forum, news and links to adoption and fostering agencies.A video clip also explains why children are fostered and adopted, and how adoption proceedings work in the family court.The site is accessed via a pocket sized CD-Rom. Security is tight and access is only permitted by using a password and security code, similar to that used on a bank or credit card website.One of Lifecard's main benefits is that it provides children with a permanent record of their family history.Dr Jeremy Chowings, executive member for health and social care at Liverpool city council, said that previously most life stories were kept in scrapbooks, which were often lost or destroyed.He added: "We know that sometimes youngsters are angry at birth parents. They may have been through very difficult times and will destroy the scrapbook or photos themselves."They can come back to this &#91;website&#93; time and time again and know it's always going to be there."Anne Reid, 21, from Runcorn, Cheshire, who was fostered at the age of three, believes Lifecard will make a huge difference for children.She said: "There is so much that people want to know your childhood is part of who you are."To have something like this, with all this information safely stored until you want to get hold of it, is invaluable."
BT believes that internet service providers (ISPs) that use its network to provide broadband access should reduce their prices to consumers, passing on the cuts it has made in wholesale prices.BT's wholesale division is installing broadband technology, known as DSL, across its network of local exchanges and rents out the lines to ISPs. Already more than one million consumers use its lines to access broadband and the company hopes to have five million connected by 2006.When it started rolling out broadband three years ago, BT charged ISPs more than £30 a month for a line. That was sliced in half in February last year and came down to £13 this May. But consumers are still paying ISPs between £25 and £30 for their broadband access.Paul Reynolds, head of BT Wholesale, believes that while he is still squeezing costs the price of wholesale access is unlikely to drop substantially. It is now up to the ISPs to examine their cost bases."We have a track record of feeding lower costs into lower prices," he said. "I think the whole value chain has to look at what it does - we have passed through a lot of cost savings and they have not always been reflected in end prices."Everybody is working hard on getting as efficient as possible and that should leave scope for price reductions both at the wholesale and retail level."There is scope in both arenas but we have done a lot recently."His comments come as BT today announces that it is widening its broadband coverage to include small market towns and villages across the UK.It is increasing the scope of its registration scheme, which allows local communities to assess how many broadband users they need on their local exchange before BT will install broadband equipment.The scheme started a year ago, after BT had rolled out broadband into the UK's large towns and cities, to gauge demand for the service in rural areas. To date BT has set demand targets for more than 1,000 exchanges and installed the technology in 300.BT today expanded the scheme by 500 more exchanges. If they are all kitted out with broadband technology, 90% of the population would be in reach of high speed, always-on internet access, pushing the UK to the top of the broadband league.
Dynasty Warriors 4PlayStation 2, &#163;39.99 Omega Force/Koei, ****Dynasty Warriors is one of the more enduring game franchises around, and it is easy to see why. Version 4 may be a console game (the Xbox version will arrive in October), but it has a meatiness and ring of historical authenticity you would associate with the average PC game.In second-century China, you play a general from the crumbling Han dynasty. With a sword, you must prevail in a succession of battles and sieges, linked by a storyline that spans a century or so. Thrust into a battlefield, you must fight your way through hordes of enemies before taking out the enemy commander. You can acquire various weapons as the game progresses; Musou magic also helps defeat the enemies.No game has better emulated the atmosphere of a real medieval battlefield and nice touches abound, such as the counter that tells you how many enemies you have defeated.The missions are long, and you need to keep your eyes peeled for power-  ups and potions. You thus get a sense of satisfaction when you finish them.Graphically, Dynasty Warriors 4 is exemplary, although there is too much fog around, and enemies can pop out of nowhere. Happily, it resists the temptation to drench itself in virtual blood. It is an absorbing, atmospheric and unusually grown-up console game, which will delight anyone with an interest in Oriental mysticism and China's golden age.Steve BoxerThe Simpsons: Road Rage|Buffy: Wrath of the Darkhul KingGame Boy Advance, &#163;29.99 THQ, ***The summer is here and, for many gamers, it's time to pack the Game Boy Advance and jet off to sunnier climes. Realising this, THQ has released two new titles, The Simpsons: Road Rage and Buffy the Vampire Slayer: Wrath of the Darkhul King.Both are licensed, a sales necessity for non-Nintendo GBA games, and both do just enough to warrant a place in the luggage. Road Rage is a facsimile of the Crazy Taxi series and sees Homer and the gang cruising around Springfield for fares. The passengers, a selection of familiar characters, must then be taken to their destination as quickly as possible.It's simple and enjoyable enough. But most disappointing is the lack of   a Simpsons atmosphere. Theme tune apart, there are no catchphrases or sound effects that were the main attraction of the Xbox and PS2 versions. Technical disparities aside, the GBA version holds up well, with the graphics particularly impressive.The Buffy game, too, is a bit of a looker. Controlling the titular heroine, your aim is to punch and kick your way through 16 levels of retro-styled mayhem. Unlike Road Rage, this really captures the atmosphere of its TV influence. Sadly, the action is repetitive, with only occasional puzzles breaking up the action.If you are looking for something new to play, both are worth a look. They don't break new ground, but have made solid debuts on the GBA.Greg HowsonStar Trek Elite Force 2PC, &#163;39.99 Ritual/Activision, ***The original Elite Force was linked to Star Trek's Voyager series and proved just as entertaining as any of the recent Trek movies. However, this connection has been severed, leaving the game to roam the universe in search of new missions and enemies. Does it boldly go anywhere worth seeing?On the good side, there are loads of missions and a satisfying variety of enemies. The Borg make their obligatory appearance, but this time, there are new races to discover, and old enemies, such as the Romulans and Klingons, to resist.Some of the Boss creatures found towards the end are among the best of any shoot-'em-up - and at least you have more than boring Phasers to fight them with. You can beven use the humble Tricorder to reveal hidden dangers and unlock occasional mini-games.But for a game based around an elite hazard team, it's surprising to discover your colleagues are bumbling fools. There are also choices that supposedly affect the story, but most lead to the same conclusions.Elite Force 2 is ultimately inconsistent, with some classic levels outweighed by pointless interaction and poor pacing. Trekkers will love it, but it had the potential to be more than just another piece of merchandise.Mike Anderiesz
Keep outI would like to protect my laptop, with the email and internet settings as a priority. I've set a Windows password that you must enter before start-up. This seems to work, in that a message of: "You must logon to retrieve your cached internet password" appears if you don't enter it on start-up.Peter LeckieJack Schofield replies:It's easier to protect the notebook than its net access, but not using the "remember password" feature would be a start. Real security is very hard to achieve. Someone who really wants your data - not just a stolen notebook to flog - can probably get to it by removing the hard drive and accessing it from another PC, or by taking it to a forensic specialist such as Vogon International. However, you can stop the vast majority of people by using a power-on password, set in the BIOS, by setting a long password in Windows 2000/XP and, if possible, by encrypting your sensitive files or the whole hard drive.There is a wide range of products to increase the security of your machine (seewww.securityfocus.com/toolsandhttp://dmoz.org/ComputersbutABI-Coderoffers a cheap, powerful way to encrypt files. For maximum security, install a system that depends on a separate digital key-lock such as a smart card or USB "pen drive", carried separately. A shareware program calledAdvanced File Protectorprovides an affordable way to do this. So-called "trusted platforms" are being developed, such as the Microsoft one formerly codenamed Palladium. If used with a biometric access device, such as a fingerprint reader, these should be secure. Until they arrive, I'd avoid using a portable to buy things online with a debit card.Let me inSomehow I have to enter my password to get into Windows XP on my computer. I do not remember setting up a system administrator password. Is there any way to bypass the password screen?Alan FletcherJS:No, or at least, not a simple one. Winternals used to offer a program calledLocksmithbut now it is only available as part of its ERD Commander 2003 software for $199. Of course, if you had thought this might happen, you could have created a password reset disk. Microsoft explains how to do this inKnowledge Base Article 305478.There is also a good guide to manipulating XP passwords atwww2.cajun.net. However, your best bet is probably to reinstall XP and start again: not a big problem if you have an up-to-date backup of your data. If not, you could try reinstalling XP in a different directory. Start your PC from the XP CD, choose not to repair the current system, choose not to format the hard drive, and choose to install XP in a new directory such as winnew. Log on to the new XP and you should find you have access to your data, except for saved passwords and any encrypted files or email. Once you have taken backups you can reformat the whole PC and start again. Warning: I have not actually done this myself.Since a PC can be booted from a CD, you can sometimes get access to data this way. You could try, for    example, the911 Rescue CD, orKnoppix, a version of Linux that runs from CD. However, as far as I know, Knoppix cannot write to an NTFS drive. In general, with Windows XP, Linux and versions of Unix, it is best to set up an administrator account and create a number of user accounts (with fast user switching) for everyday use.In shortIs there a keyboard shortcut for maximising the current window in Windows?Martin SkinnerJS:Alt-Spacebar X does it, though many people just double-click anywhere in the title bar, which toggles between Maximize and Restore.Backchat&#183;Brian Kelsey wanted a mouse substitute to avoid RSI. Dr Martin Bligh says it might be worth considering a trackball.&#183;Graeme Talboys wanted to remove the Read-Only tags from thousands of files he had stored on CD. Alan Polak says: "I can recommend a program called ReadOnly, which can be downloaded fromwww.sente.co.uk/downloads.htm. It seems reliable and is easy to use. It is freeware, but the initial download is time-limited to a 30 day trial." Sente also offers FlagRASH, which does that and more.&#183;Neil Sinclair asked about recording internet radio broadcasts to his hard disk. Russ Craig adds that you can use SDP from the Streaming Download Project to record Microsoft streaming formats. It is a free download fromhttp://sdp.ppona.com.
The Department of Health last week ended its pilot projects on electronic transmission of prescriptions (ETP), which have dealt with prescriptions for thousands of patients. There are no plans to move from the pilots, which were funded by the companies involved, to a national system, even though the firms say such plans were promised.Two newly appointed health ministers, John Hutton and Rosie Winterton, recently confirmed a target of providing ETP to half the population by 2005, and to everyone by 2007. Winterton wrote to the pilot projects last week, saying that ETP will be procured through the NHS National Programme for IT. But that programme's boss, Richard Granger, said it would only proceed with ETP when the policy position was clear.Murray Bywater, managing director of Silicone Bridge, a healthcare IT analyst firm, says ETP may clash with the new NHS GP contract, which wants chemists to do repeat prescribing, requiring some access to patient records - which they do not have.Most doctors use software to produce prescriptions. Technically, it is easy for this information to be sent electronically to a pharmacy, rather than print it for the patient to take.ETP could be useful for repeat prescriptions, as these could be requested and authorised electronically - particularly valuable for patients with conditions such as arthritis, who require regular medication but find it difficult to visit the surgery and chemist.The pilots tried three methods. In Peterborough, a consortium led by SchlumbergerSema, an IT services firm, passed prescriptions to a central   server, so the patient could collect medication from any participating chemist. In east Hampshire, TransScript sent prescriptions directly to a patient's nominated pharmacist.Pharmacy2U, a mail-order chemist based in Leeds, introduced the biggest change, allowing patients' prescriptions to be delivered anywhere in the UK for no extra charge.   Delivery required the signature of the patient or their named representative. Patients could ask the company to phone or email them when they were due for more medication. A pharmacist checked they still required it, before asking the GP for authorisation then sending it."It's very worthwhile for those who have trouble getting to the chemist,"   says Christina Westley-Rose, who has used the service for a year. She reckons she saves an hour each time she avoids a trip to a pharmacy.The three pilots collaborated with the prescription pricing authority (PPA), which could be freed from dealing with millions of paper prescriptions, in developing a combined system. "By March, we were down to   a small number of models," says Nigel Bell, health programme director at SchlumbergerSema. All would allow patients to have their prescription sent to their usual chemist, placed on a central relay for collection from any pharmacy, or ordered through mail-order.However, SchlumbergerSema closed its pilot in mid-April, while keeping the technology in place. The other two continued until the planned end of the pilots on June 30: this date had been extended from December."Lord Hunt originally said we would not do pilots for pilots' sake, and that there would be a transition from the pilots to a national service," says Bell, referring to the former NHS IT minister who resigned in March over the Iraq war.But on June 30, the Department of Health informed the two pilots they would end as planned, with services winding down over a few weeks.Pharmacy2U has created a new version of its pilot service, which serves 4,000 patients at 142 surgeries. But it will have to inoculate its electronic system with a dose of paper."We need a paper prescription to prescribe against legally," says Julian Harrison, commercial director of the firm. "But we will have advance notification of what is wanted through the system we had before."The patients will not notice any difference, but doctors will have to sign paper prescriptions and post them to Pharmacy2U. The PPA will again receive paper prescriptions, rather than electronic data."A big backward step has been taken," says Harrison. "It had an effective system that was free for patients and GPs, and it has taken it away."
In 1981, ICL made me redundant, with 13,000 other unfortunates, after 28 years in sales and marketing. I was 51, and my wife thought I would never work again. I tended to agree with her, having read many letters in the computer press from unemployed 45-year-old programmers moaning that no one would give them a job. It didn't quite work out that way. Last Monday, 22 years later, I quit my day job, still in the computer industry. Patricia Hewitt, trade and industry secretary, would be proud of me.She will find the IT industry the hardest to lift from its normal 50+ "early retirement age" to 70. At 51, those people laughingly called "human resource consultants" showed no interest in placing me in big company jobs like the one I had been doing successfully for 10   years. The lesson is: avoid HR consultants and blue-chip companies. They are institutionally ageist, and always will be, whatever Patricia Hewitt does to try to stop them.I was lucky to get on a government-funded mini-MBA course for redundant executives. This taught me a lot of useful business theory, but, more importantly, it put my previous career into context. And it showed me that my previous bosses were incompetent. This had two effects: it restored my confidence in myself, and it made me angry. I have lived off the two emotions ever since. Sadly, the government stopped this programme shortly after I benefited from it.In the end, I did get a job, through a friend of a friend. The lesson is: start networking from your 30s onwards. Get out and   meet people. This is tough for those in IT, who, tied to their screens, do not relate to other people very well.Nor do computer people notice that the technology moves on in the twinkling of an eye. They believe that their record on developing software with last year's tools and loyalty to their employer will ensure them a job. They couldn't be more wrong. They need to retrain every two years, preferably at their employer's expense.Expect to make some false starts. The first job I got, selling Commodore Pets, a pre-PC micro, was a disaster. I had to sell a computer a week, when I had, in ICL, been selling one mainframe per year. I just could not cope with the higher tempo. But I learnt a lot, very fast. New technical things, such as using a word processor and spreadsheet.   Business things, like small companies survive longer than dinosaurs, and that micros would wipe the floor of mainframes. Personal things, like you have to live by your wits, because no personnel department is ever going to look after you.Armed with these lessons, the aged can survive. I have done it for 22 years, as a journalist, seeing out all the striplings who made me redundant. The IT industry is now so vast that there are many opportunities. But they are away from the mainstream. In fact, the mainstream is not the place to be. It will go bust next year.&#183;Richard Sarson has been editor of the Journal of the Parliamentary Information Technology Committee for the past eight years and has been contributing to the Guardian since 1984.
Counting HeadsIt's World Population Day tomorrow, and the United Nations Population Fund has a site featuring a report on the state of the world's population along with health and nutrition concerns for our planet. Wondering just how many of us are here? The US Census Bureau helps out with estimated population clocks for the US and the world. Go to Tranquileye. com to compare the estimated world population with the estimated amount of arable land on Earth.www.unfpa.org/wpdwww.census.gov/main/www/popclock.htmlwww.tranquileye.com/clockIrish OpenIf you've got the heart of a goof, take a swing at the Nissan Irish Open. It will take place at Portmarnock Golf Links, Dublin, from July 24-27. At the official website, you can register for free text alerts that will keep you up to date on the status of the event, or register for a ticket giveaway. The Portmarnock site's golf section gives you a walkthrough and virtual reality guide for the 18 holes of the course as you get ready for the tournament. (You'll need Java to run the walkthrough.) Has this write-up given you a hankering to play, but you're nowhere near Ireland? Look up the worldwide directory of golf courses.http://shop.classicsofgolf.comwww.nissan-irishopen.iewww.portmarnock.com/golf/www.golfcourses.comStuffed!Who knew maladies could be so cute? GiantMicrobes has transformed the hazards of mortal life - including the microbes that cause bad breath, athlete's foot and the common cold - into cuddly stuffed pals. There's even one for Martian life, based on shapes found in   a Mars rock. Luckily, they're much much, much larger than life-sized.www.giantmicrobes.comOlympics 2010The 2010 Winter Olympics will be here before you know it, and Vancouver, British Columbia, will be the place to be. Visit the official City of Vancouver website to learn more about the city. There is an Olympics page with plenty of information about the history of the bid and the impact it will have on the city. Visit Vancouver Tourist for some wonderful views of the city in both webcam and still photo formats. There are even Vancouver satellite pictures.www.city.vancouver.bc.cawww.vancouvertourist.com6 of AmazonIf you are looking for proof of just how weird the world is, wander over to the Amazing Baconizer. This handy online tool will draw a purchase line between two specified items. It's only a leisurely seven hops between Abbie Hoffman's Steal This Book and Peter Lynch's One Up On Wall Street, and most of it, surprisingly, is Tom Wolfe. You can search for books, movies or CDs, as well as try to reverse the connection between two items. Try out the random walk, which connects random items in Amazon's database for you.www.baconizer.comConvert-MeNo, it's not religion; it is measurement. Convert-Me offers tools for converting a variety of measures, from weight and mass to computer storage. Units to be measured cover the contemporary and the ancient, and are converted via handy forms. If you are bemused by some of the measurements here, check out the definitions in the Dictionary of Units of Measurement. Convert-Me is available in English and Russian.www.convert-me.com/enwww.unc.edu/~rowlett/unitsFairy TalesIf your kids (or possibly you) have finished the latest Harry Potter book and you are looking for something else to read, visit the Grimm Index page. This site includes English translations of 200 fairy tales and 10 children's legends. The stories are also available for download. Hungry for more? Aesop's Fables online has over 600 fables and more than 100 fairy tales by Hans Christian Andersen.www.ucs.mun.ca/~wbarker/fairies/grimmwww.pacificnet.net/~johnr/aesopNew &amp; notedJapanese Politicianshttp://japanesepoliticians.comBeacon for Freedom of Expressionwww.beaconforfreedom.orgAbout Cookieswww.aboutcookies.orgSix of the bestT-shirtsHoward Besser's T-Shirt Databasehttp://sunsite.berkeley.edu/T-ShirtsRock Art T-Shirt Collectionwww.gain-ground.comThe T-Shirt Museumhttp://tshirtmuseum.comOld Mozilla T-Shirtswww.ex-mozilla.org/teeshirtartGeek History Through T-Shirtshttp://geekt.org/geektThe T-Shirt Network Link Collectionwww.t-shirtnetwork.com&#183;Tara Calishain runs theResearchBuzz newsletterand is co-author of the bookGoogle Hacks.
Don't call meVictor Keegan outlines new features of mobile phones (Second Sight, July 3), but doesn't enthuse me.
    I'm trying to visualise professional photographers replacing their bagfuls of cameras with bagfuls of
    camera phones.I'm not IT illiterate - I've used PCs, email and the internet for years - but I just can't
    find much use for mobile devices like laptops, PDAs, iPods, etc and I hardly ever use my mobile phone. Is
    it just me, or is the market for all this quite limited? And how much is all this going to cost individuals
    if they are making mobile phone calls all day to pay for things?Ian WinshipNewcastle upon TyneLinux allureIn response to public sector consideration of Linux (Return to the source, July 3), Microsoft is citing
    total cost of ownership, but you don't mention another open source Unix-based commercial system -
    Mac OS X - which is reported to have significantly lower total cost of ownership than Microsoft systems.
    Ease of use, security and build quality help reduce technical support needs and make for long-term
    savings, though reduced IT staff requirements may be unpopular with some.An independent study of
    total cost of ownership of all platforms would be well worth while for the public sector. 
    More surprisingly, I've seen no mention in Online of the $3bn claim that SCO is making against IBM for
    alleged "intellectual theft" of Unix code which SCO acquired rights to, and now claims to have found in
    Linux.The effective funding of SCO by Microsoft, and their threats against other Linux users, has led
    to fears that this is an attempt to use uncertainty and doubt to undermine Linux. If there does turn out
    to be material in Linux that was contributed without legal authorisation, free software pioneer Richard
    Stallman is confident that Linux developers will learn what it is and replace it, so that Linux can remain
    free.Dave SouzaGourock, InverclydeFreely sourcedPublic sector bodies could save money by using Linux, Apache and OpenOffice (Return to the source,
    July 3), but why stop there?A culture of open-source software development could reduce duplication between public bodies, cut
    costs and give individual authorities the freedom to adapt existing solutions to meet their specific
    needs. What is more, "best practice" solutions developed for public bodies in Europe (or elsewhere) at
    the leading edge of e-government could be made freely available to public bodies across the developing
    world.Some small projects are showing what might be possible (egwww.aswad-project.org,www.freegis.org,
    andwww.gnu.org.pe/proleyap.html. What is needed now is for local, national and European politicians
    to wake up and provide backing for these and similar efforts.Dr Andy DeardenSheffieldRational numbersRegarding Rob Cameron's comments (Feedback, July 3), it is perhaps worth mentioning that several
    countries in Europe have been using a Pin at POS (point of sale) for many years, sometimes using mag
    stripe, as in Belgium, or chip, as in France. Use of Pin for ATM cash withdrawals is universal. I am not
    aware of any problems with Pin muggings in those countries or in the overall use of Pins. The reduction
    in the risk of fraud is likely to be greater than the risk of being terrorised for your Pin.Chris WhiteSevenoaks, KentSounding off on CDsRe Sound of the underground (Online, July 3). I download music. Why? To find out what CDs I want to buy.
    There are several reasons for this. First, with CDs being so expensive, who is going to risk buying a CD
    with only one good song on it?Second, to find new bands. I hear about a band, download a few songs, decide if I like them and, if I do, I
    buy the CD. Since I started downloading, I have discovered loads of bands. All the CDs I have bought in
    the past two years have been due to downloading. 
    I've discovered what a narrow selection of music is broadcast on the radio. The record companies have a
    massive back catalogue, but only anything from the past month or so is promoted. Radio stations seem
    to have an obsession with the single (maybe 6 Music excepted), but most of the good music is on
    albums.Dave ClarkeLeicesterPhilipsWe'd like to advise Bill Johnson (Feedback, June 26) that the Philips Streamium internet hi-fi system is
    available via Amazon.com.Tina WithingtonMedia relations manager,Philips Consumer Electronics,LondonRadio wavesGeoffrey Davies' letter (Feedback, July 3) was amusing. We Titanium Powerbook owners know the newer
    aluminium ones are more transparent to radio waves than the 15in TiBooks. Frequent flyers had better
    buy up old stocks before Apple releases the expected 15in aluminium PB. Regarding pop-up ads, Apple's
    Safari browser has an option to block these.Roger ShufflebottomHertford
Five years ago, hardly a month went by without the announcement of some new server appliance, such as Oracle's Raw Iron database appliance server. Intended as a stand-alone database server, built on a custom embedded operating system, Raw Iron never made it to the server room. It wasn't the only one: several other companies' appliance server plans faded at the same time. While the days of the big server appliance never arrived, appliances are more common than many people realise. You'll find server appliances acting as complex network security systems, encryption systems, email servers and web servers, and providing management features for the smallest network devices.Some believe the day of the large-scale appliance is gone, never to return. Certainly the market has changed considerably in the past few years, as much of what appliances were once intended to deliver is now built into operating systems or application servers. Designed to be commodities, server appliances have themselves become the victims of IT commoditisation. As server prices continue to fall, it's easier for businesses to install software packages on to standard hardware from their own preferred suppliers.While complex applications may not work well as appliances, there's an alternative approach, which Oracle now uses to sell appliance-like database solutions. Instead of selling a single piece of combined hardware and software, application vendors, operating system developers and hardware manufacturers have collaborated to deliver packaged solutions. Oracle's relationship with Dell and RedHat means businesses can buy an off-the-shelf Dell server, and a certified package of operating system and applications. There's still more than one point of contact for support, but a locked-down certified configuration should mean that all the companies involved can handle problems quickly.There is a flourishing market for smaller scale appliances in the small and medium enterprise sector. Employing a full-time IT manager is a big decision for a small business, and appliances can give a company more breathing space before they have to commit to extra overheads. UK appliance vendor intY delivers managed appliances to SME organisations, based around its ExoServer platform. By offering a managed service, intY can back up entire business systems overnight. If there's a hardware failure, a replacement system can be delivered the next working day, fully   configured, and loaded with the data from the last successful backup. ExoServers act as file stores, email servers and internet gateways. It is also possible to use them as extranet servers and virtual private network (VPN) gateways.Small web servers can work well as appliances. Sun's range of Cobalt server appliances builds on work done on the early Cobalt Qubes and RaQs to deliver simple web server appliances that are ideal for small hosting services and for medium enterprises. Sun also provides a management server to make it easier for a single administrator to control an array of RaQs from a single system that is based on the standard RaQ and optimised for a management role using a web user interface. With Linux as the operating system, appliances such as the RaQ aren't limited   to their bundled software. A RaQ is ready to use straight out of the box, but more sophisticated users can extend the functionality by installing readily available open source content management systems and portals.Devices like the Cobalt RaQ are common in many medium-sized internet service providers and hosting facilities. As appliances, they're easy to control, and the fixed hardware specification means backups from one system can be quickly loaded on to new hardware in the event of a failure. ISPs also use access appliances and cache servers to speed up connections for dial-up users.Storage appliances are also common in enterprise architectures. Appliances at the heart of network storage are built on a mix of custom operating systems and off-the-shelf solutions. Microsoft's recently   released Windows Storage Server 2003 is a locked-down version of Windows Server 2003, optimised for use as a dedicated file server. Ready for use in most networks, Microsoft-based solutions also take advantage of Windows' management technologies, including Active Directory. Iomega is using these technologies in its new range of network attached storage (NAS) servers.Another storage vendor making considerable use of appliance technologies is Network Appliance. Originally best known for providing NAS technologies to such ISPs as Freeserve, Network Appliance has moved its storage products into vertical markets and developed relationships that mean it can offer storage solutions through software partners. One major partner is Oracle, which is using Network Appliance storage   servers as part of its EBSO outsourcing service.A new market for storage appliances is being driven by regulatory issues, where compliance can mean companies need to store many years worth of data. Appliances can be used to keep this "near store" information on slower discs at a cost on a par with tape storage.Large organisations such as Intel also take advantage of appliance technologies in their internal networks. Server consolidation programs put most corporate data on storage servers, either NAS or SAN systems. They also use appliance systems to manage their networks. Firewalls are commonly built around hardened operating systems in appliance systems, while companies like F5 Labs use similar techniques to deliver network load balancing and global DNS services.While most of us think of mobile phones when we hear the word Nokia, network engineers will think of Nokia's range of firewall appliances. Based around the Check Point FireWall-1 network security software, Nokia's appliances are configured in the factory, ready to run as soon as they are powered up and connected to a network. Remote management tools let you customise configurations, and manage several appliances at the same time. It is possible to use Nokia firewall appliances to offer VPN connectivity to remote users, and Nokia also produces appliances that can sit at the borders of corporate email networks. Like the firewall appliances, Nokia's email solution mixes its own hardware and secure operating system with third-party software.You'll find various types of server appliance technologies in the most surprising places. HP printers have built-in web servers for remote configuration, as do Linksys's popular wireless routers. Meanwhile, network video specialist Axis has based a business around producing video cameras built on embedded Linux solutions that can act as stand-alone servers, or deliver images to web servers. The next webcam image you see might well have been delivered by a server appliance that looks nothing like a rack-mounted PC.Despite the disappearance of large-scale appliances, the appliance market is alive and well. Small-scale devices and network systems are part of everyday business life, while larger applications gain some of the advantages of appliances through certified configurations. Whichever approach a business chooses, appliances can save time and money - well worth investigating in the current economic climate.
Government targetResearch by analyst firm Datamonitor says that 36% of local authorities do not believe they will meet the government's targets for implementing electronic availability of services. Ninety-two per cent said they lacked funding, and 73% said they lacked guidance in implementing such projects. "Most councils do not expect to get this guidance from other councils or even the central government, but more from IT service providers, technology vendors and consultancies/integrators," says Kathleen Klasnic, a lead analyst at Datamonitor.Analyst firm Kable calculates that local government will have spent &#163;3.3bn between 2001 and 2006 when the measures submitted by the councils in last year's Implementing Electronic Government statements are fulfilled. Councils have to submit progress reports to the government in October, and those that fail, risk not receiving further funding for their e-government work.www.kablenet.comwww.datamonitor.comBiometric passportThe UK, along with other European countries, is planning to produce passports containing biometric information by autumn next year, in response to the US requiring such measures. The US will demand visas of everyone who doesn't have a biometric passport. The UK is also installing iris-scanning in 10 places, following a trial at Heathrow. However, use of the scheme will be voluntary and aimed at frequent flyers.www.edri.orgSnare bareThe MyLife virus is being circulated in an email offering a screensaver of Julia Roberts naked. This is the latest in a series of such emails using celebrities as the lure to click on the attachment and release a virus. Although notas bad as last month's BugBear-B   attacks, this is the latest in a wave of viruses that have shown an increase of 17.5% over the same six-month period last year, according to antivirus developer Sophos. Many viruses are easy to detect and can be stopped with the correct procedures and software in place, but new strains such as BugBear use more subtle means of replicating through Internet Relay Chat services and peer-to-peer connections as well as email.www.sophos.com/virusinfo/articles/juliaroberts.htmlMersey beatLiverpool council has claimed a world first for a new website that tells the city's fostered and adopted children about their past. The Lifecard provides an online record of children's life stories, including pictures of them as babies, video clips from their birth parents, their vaccination records and family tree. The secure site, which was set up by the council in partnership with multimedia company MediaCDCards, is accessed via a pocket-sized CD-Rom, which can be replaced if it is lost.www.lifecard.org.ukwww.mediacdcards.comMiddle groundBEA Systems is aiming for the medium-sized business with the next release of its WebLogic application server, which is due this month. The main thrust for Weblogic 8.1 will be to reduce the level of expertise required to use its Workshop application development software and to allow systems integrators to develop re-usable modules that can be rolled out to more than one customer. BEA will also update its platform's portal and integration software.IBM's release of software for the mid-market last November has challenged BEA to make its latest move and develop a channel strategy of its own. The company is currently looking for channel partners for the UK.http://dev2dev.bea.com/articles/Rivera.jspWeb commsPolycom claims to have consigned the video-conferencing room to the history books with its web-based conferencing portal. WebOffice is a browser-based system that can run on the desktop and supports several levels of interactivity from instant messaging to video conferencing. Users logging on to the portal are supplied with features and drivers best suited to their hardware configuration and bandwidth.Polycom claims that even a standard 56K modem can be used to allow instant messaging and collaborative work on documents over the internet. When bandwidth allows, the system will check to see if the user has Polycom's ViaVideo camera attached to the system and will automatically switch in the video capabilities.www.polycom.com/products_services
Netscape has just released the last version of its eight-year-old web browser to not much acclaim. The company's co-founder, Marc Andreessen, found it all rather boring. "There hasn't been any innovation on the browser in the past five years. And five years from now, there won't be any changes," he told Reuters.One reason for the lack of progress is that Netscape made some poor decisions before Andreessen left. The company wanted to do a cross-platform browser to run on several operating systems, which is laudable in principle. Unfortunately, it also meant that it wasted its development budget on a small minority of the market, and that its Windows code was awful - as became clear when   Netscape went "open source" with the Mozilla project five years ago.Instead of innovating, Netscape and Mozilla programmers have been rewriting stuff that should have been architected properly in the first place, though they still stuck to their cross-platform delusions. They could have made Gecko, the "revolutionary next-generation browser engine", a tightly written ActiveX control for Windows, but didn't. Having chosen a losing strategy for Windows, they then saw Apple adopt the smaller, faster, KHTML browser engine - developed for the K Desktop Environment's (KDE) Konquerer browser - for its Safari browser.Microsoft did not have this problem. Being rich, it had devoted two development teams to its Internet Explorer browser: one to keep advancing the old Mosaic code in competition with Netscape, and one to rewrite it with a component architecture, to leapfrog Netscape. And although Microsoft also produced browsers for other platforms, there was never any confusion about IE being not just designed for but integrated into Windows.But having built a better browser, Microsoft hasn't done much to it for five years - apart from trying to fix bugs and security holes. To be fair, Microsoft did have innovative plans to unite Windows with the web. It developed Active Desktop - so your desktop worked like a web page - and "pushed" channels of information to it. But users hated the idea, so Microsoft abandoned it, leaving the vacuum you enjoy today.This may be the right strategy. First, most programmers will continue to use the IE engine because it   is so easy to embed in applications, and most web designers will make sure their sites work best with IE. Second, Microsoft's star developers have been focusing on web services, where the company competes with IBM and Sun. Microsoft isn't fighting the last war, but the next one.Now, Microsoft has decided to leave the standalone browser market, so upgrades will only come with new versions of Windows. It clearly isn't afraid of Netscape: even Netscape's owner, AOL, does not use it, and laid off almost all its browser developers last December.But Mozilla's Firebird browser and Thunderbird standalone mail software (see links below) could make Microsoft's offerings look very shabby indeed.A mass switch back to Netscape is unlikely, of course. But it would only take a couple of months.LinksMozilla Firebird 0.6 (6.66MB)www.mozilla.org/projects/firebird/release-notes.html#FAQThunderbird (8.95MB)www.mozilla.org/projects/thunderbirdwww.mozilla.org/projects/thunderbirdhttp://ftp.mozilla.org/pub/thunderbird/nightly/2003-07-01-trunk
Digital citizenship could soon be a fact of life if the government gets its way. Paper records of births, deaths and marriages - the legal bedrock of individual identity - are to be phased out in England and Wales. Cradle-to-grave records will be stored on a new database - and the only proof of who you are will be digital.It is not something the government wants to trumpet. A recent white paper hinted at the idea and the publication of an official consultation document brings digital citizenship a step closer. The new system could be introduced from 2005 if it receives parliamentary backing.Under the present system, people give information about births and deaths in the area in which the event happened. The registrar writes the information into weighty, leather-bound books - red for births, black for deaths. This framework - civil registration - has changed little since it was introduced in 1837.But it is a system the government describes as antiquated. Under the proposed changes, the registers will be stripped of their legal status once their contents have been transferred to the new database. No new paper records will be created and, eventually, there will be a digital "through-life record" for everyone.Visiting the registrar's office could become a thing of the past, too, because the new system encourages registration by telephone or internet."The government is dedicated to offering the public the services it wants and needs using a variety of channels," says Andrew Pinder, the government's e-envoy. "Enabling online civil registration is an example of building services around the needs of   citizens, fitting in with people's daily lives and crucially offering choice and flexibility."But the government's optimism is not shared by everyone. "It's not just a question of moving from paper to digital. This is a radical change in the nature of the records," says Richard Harper, visiting professor in socio-digital systems at the University of Surrey. "The government seems to want to toss aside what few tangible contacts it has with people and to make them merely digital."The plans are a fundamental challenge to established notions of citizenship and may be the most far- reaching changes since records began. The shift to digital raises important questions about the integrity and durability of crucial records. Electronic documents are difficult to authenticate and potentially easier to alter than paper ones because there is no registrar's signature.Digital data is also vulnerable over long periods of time - and this could pose problems, because records of citizenship have to survive for decades rather than years.The government recognises this. That's why acts of parliament and other key legal documents are archived on vellum, an animal-skin parchment that can last centuries.Australia is one of a few countries that have started to introduce digital registration, and the challenges of electronic record-keeping are recognised. "Paper will generally survive 'benign neglect'," says Danielle Wickman, from the Australian Society of Archivists. "Electronic records will not survive unless they are actively managed and conscious effort is put into making sure they remain accessible."Balancing the requirements of electronic accessibility with data   preservation is increasingly problematic. Computer systems are good for processing and sharing information - but long-term storage is uncharted territory.The British Library is one of a few libraries of legal deposit in the UK. It is required to keep copies of just about everything that is published, from books to local newspapers."If there's a choice between digital and paper formats for a publication, the favoured solution from the point of view of longevity is the paper version," says Helen Shenton, from the British Library, which holds paper documents that are 1,800 years old. "At present, there's no way of guaranteeing continued access to and preservation of the digital version."It's not just high-profile public records facing the digital dilemma - it is a potential timebomb for local archives, too. The National Lottery's New Opportunities Fund (NOF) is one of a growing number of organisations with big money to spend on getting Britain online. Through its "NOF Digitise" programme, it has poured &#163;50m into more than 150 schemes - many community-based - to get archives on the web. But some experts warn that lack of forward planning could mean such communal memories are eventually lost altogether."There's a real problem for local archives - and there's a general perception that the funding to create digital material is massively ahead of investment in long-term infrastructure," says Neil Beagrie, programme director for the Joint Information Systems Committee, a body that provides guidance on digital issues to the academic community."Money is going into creating digital material - but there's no money going into the preservation of it."
With almost anything else you buy, once you've paid for it, you own it, and you can do what you want with it. With software, you are only buying a licence to use it within limits, and you need to know what those limitations are. It makes no difference if software is free - there are still restrictions. Because software is free to download doesn't mean it is free for everyone to use, as US senator Orrin Hatch found out recently.Shortly after Hatch suggested allowing copyright holders to hack into the computers of people using pirate copies of their work, irate bloggers discovered his website was using unlicensed software for its navigation. The software, from a company called Milonic, is free for non-commercial use - provided you apply for a free licence and include a link to Milonic's site. The site developers had done neither and Milonic has now decided government users and political groups don't count as not-for-profit groups under the terms of its licence.The licence terms were clear on Milonic's site. But many people either don't read licence agreements or don't understand the technicalities. When you buy Windows, for example, you only have a licence to use it on one PC; when you buy Office, the licence lets you load it on two machines as long as you don't use both at once - unless it's a copy that came with your PC.Andy Woolley, from Milonic, does not single out Hatch for blame. "In general, we have several thousand customers who have all adhered to the terms and conditions and pay their licence fees without problem. But when you look at the statistics,   you see hundreds of thousands of downloads but very few actual sales; I estimate around one sale for every 500 downloads and I doubt very much only one of them is a commercial customer."Commercial, corporate licences are often far more complicated, not least because every software company reckons them up differently. For desktop software, Apple has different tiers of licensing, depending on which band the number of users falls into.When software runs on a server rather than a desktop, it's not always clear who counts as a "user", and some vendors define clients differently for different products. If your company database drives a website or cash tills, does every surfer or every cashier count as a database user? Server licences may cover a limited or unlimited number of users, or be based on the number of processors in the server running the software.Roaming and hotdesking users increase the complexity. The BBC found it couldn't use centralised profiles to enable any user to use any machine on the worldwide BBC network so they wouldn't be affected by local disasters, because users logging off from a machine left behind "fragments" of licensed applications, breaking the terms and conditions.Licences can't always be transferred to outsourcers. Custom software development has pitfalls, too; solicitor Dino Wilkinson points out that unless you write it into the contract, you can end up with the right to use the software but not the copyright. Open source doesn't always simplify things. Although the operating system is free to use, you will pay for support and you may have to pay   for applications. Changes to source code usually have to be contributed back to the open source community.Paul Brennan, of the Federation Against Software Theft, is sceptical of claims that understanding what licences you need can be difficult. "I do not see many breaches of licence due to confusion. As a famous store detective once said: 'I have seen many people so confused that they left the shop without paying, but I have never found anybody who got so confused that they paid twice.' With the right professional approach, confusion does not enter into it."Microsoft's Sue Hogg disagrees. "It would be wrong of me to say licensing is really simple because it isn't, but customers have got choice in licensing. We could make it very simple tomorrow but it would be very restrictive."She emphasises the importance of managing software licences: "I think there's a lot of confusion because people don't track it, don't perceive it as an asset. Often there's no process in place, they have to backtrack to find out what's been bought."Managing software licences isn't just a case of doing an audit and keeping a database. Hogg compares it to losing a music CD; you can't get another copy just because you have your till receipt. Finding out what you've got, what you need and what users are running can save you money on what you don't use. Analysts at Gartner put average savings at around 30%, and the British Software Alliance refers to a company that saved &#163;500,000. That's a more attractive prospect than the $44m European companies have already paid out for breaking software licences.
Curtain raiser for a silver screenToday, a British start-up company will unveil its first product, a silver all-in-one PC, in London and New York. Pelham Sloane - which sounds like a posh street corner - is not the first to abandon the beige box and build the PC into an LCD screen, but this is one of the more elegant attempts. The first model has a 15in screen with built-in speakers, CD-Rom and desktop-style mouse and keyboard.It is aimed at the government and commercial sectors, including retail, where space is at a premium. Ex-VAT prices range from &#163;849 with a very avoidable 933MHz Via C3 processor to &#163;949 with a speedy 2.4GHz Pentium 4 and Windows XP Pro. The next models will offer 17in, 20in, plasma and touch screens; Bluetooth wireless mice and keyboards are on the way.Pelham Sloane will sell the SP1500 on the web and via MicroWarehouse. It has not yet announced consumer outlets, but it needs to be improved for consumer use. Better speakers, a quieter fan and a slot-loading DVD drive would be a good start.EntertainmentHandheld videosHandheld video devices that combine an LCD screen with a hard disk capable of storing many movies are set to be one of the year's big gadget stories.Yet market leaders Archos, whose AV320 launches this week for around &#163;500, and Thomson, which has its Lyra Jukebox ready to go soon, could face stiff competition from a new US startup. Handheld Entertainment says it will deliver a tiny portable video player by October which will retail for just $100. Details are sketchy but the ZVUE video player features a colour screen, is compatible with MP3 audio and JPeg photo files, and is wrapped in a stylish blue casing. However, it doesn't have any hard disk storage, so users will have to buy their own memory cards. Handheld is also not saying how long the player's batteries will last - a key issue for this type of product.www.hheld.comTV BrickEver wished you could watch your favourite shows as they are broadcast in the US, rather than having to wait ages for the same series to be transmitted in the UK? Well, you might be able to one day soon, for French company Nexedi isjust a few months away from launching software that will turn a PC into a home server that will allow it to stream TV programmes to a PC in another country.The bad news is that it is unlikely to work in the UK for some time, as the person streaming the video requires an internet connection with upload speeds of at least 512kbps. That is twice as fast as that offered by even the fastest consumer connection in the UK - Telewest's 2Mbps service.To keep within international copyright laws, the person watching the programme also has to be from the same family as the person sending it. Not, of course, that there is anyway of policing this.The company already ships hardware offering this service, though the device, called the TV Brick, is only on sale in Japan, Korea and parts of Scandinavia.www.tvbrick.comMobile phones3G network3 has unveiled its first new handset since its launch in March. Due in the stores this week is the NEC e808y, a revamped version of the existing NEC e808. Sporting a design not unlike the RIM Blackberry or the forthcoming Handspring Treo 600, the new mobile has jettisoned the e808's clamshell design and is now flat.It does keep its predecessor's large screen, full Qwerty keyboard, colour display, 64MB and video calling facilities. But like the e808, it is not compatible with POP3 email accounts.More new 3G phones are expected to follow later in the year, with Motorola's A835, which, unlike the A830 that 3 currently sells, includes a built-in camera. It is expected to be the next product to go on sale.3 has also signed a deal with retailer Superdrug. Shoppers can now see the network's Video Calling feature in   action in more than 60 stores.There is also a great deal of speculation about how many handsets 3 has been selling since it introduced its ultra competitive VideoTalk 500 and 750 tariffs several weeks ago. Trade magazine Mobile has reported that, attracted by monthly charges of &#163;25 for 500 minutes of voice calls, 3 is now pulling in as many as 20,000 new customers each week.www.three.co.ukSiemensMobile phone manufacturer Siemens, which seems to be introducing a new handset every month, has unveiled a trio of new phones that are scheduled for a late-summer launch. Among them is Siemens's first phone with an integrated camera - the MC60 - which is aimed at the youth market.Sporting a design not unlike the forthcoming M55, the model features polyphonic ringtones, Java games and five hours of talk time. Siemens claims that unlike with rival handsets, users can take and send images with the MC60 in just two clicks. Also on their way to shops is the C60, a mid-range mobile sporting a colour screen and triband facilities, and an entry-level handset, the A52.www.siemens.co.ukWi-FiWireless cameraIs Wi-Fi set to become the next big feature in digital cameras? It could well be, as Sanyo and Ricoh have both paraded models that are compatible   with optional Wi-Fi cards.Adding Wi-Fi facilities means that images can be accessed by PCs over a network, rather than having to remove storage cards from the camera and slotting them into computers.Both models are likely to be launched in Japan later this year. Ricoh's Caplio ProG3 is the more advanced camera as it boasts higher picture resolution (3.24 megapixels) and is also compatible with Bluetooth and GPS cards. This means you can see exactly where the image was taken. Sanyo's DSC-SX560 is a more basic snapper capable of taking 1.5 megapixel images.www.sanyo.co.ukwww.ricoh.co.ukTechnospeakMHz from MP3sThe meanings of terms such as MP3, megahertz and Bluetooth are flummoxing even the most savvy IT users, a survey has found.Only 3% of 1,500 consumers in the UK, US, Japan and China who took the AMD Global Consumer Advisory Board's technology quiz could identify all 11 terms. The study found that even among the most knowledgeable - those who identified seven or more terms - only a third could pick out the correct definition for a digital video recorder from a choice of three, and less then half knew what Bluetooth and Wap were. You can take the test for yourself on the processor manufacturer AMD's website.www2.amd.com
Do you visit a lot of the comedy sites on the net?Not really, to be honest. I look atLaugh.comandChortleis good in terms of current comedy news. I'm not one of those who need to be on the net all the time checking the latest comedy developments - I tend to go online when I need something. I don't download MP3s as I'd still far rather buy comedy CDs and listen to them.So file-sharing doesn't appeal to you?I think it's a good idea, I can just never be bothered. I'm a real gadget-freak, but with the computer stuff, there's way too much fannying about. If you could just plug your iPod in, say what tracks you wanted, then half an    hour later you had three comedy albums _ brilliant. It's never that simple, though. There's all the saving it into files and transferring it - that just really frustrates me.What other gadgets are you into?I've got aDigital Jukeboxand a ridiculous number of digital cameras. The last camera I bought was theNikon CoolPix. I have theNokia 3650videophone with Bluetooth that lets me send stuff to the computer. I did have aT68iwith the snap-on camera, but couldn't be arsed carrying the camera around. The Nokia also takes a good photo - there's a really good white-balance on it.With all your cameras, you'll be well    versed in Photoshop then?Again, I bought the professional version ofPhotoshopand so far the only thing I've managed to do is put my family members' faces on the bodies of all the X-Men from the film poster. I also took a photo of my dog then put my face on its body _ there's still a lot I have to learn with Photoshop!PDA?MyiPaqhas satellite navigation installed - I got so fed up downloading all the different maps that I bought the biggest memory card for it and downloaded the whole of the British Isles. For all I love the gadgetry, I'm always losing the chargers. I tend to buy a lot of my technology when I'm in Singapore, so if anyone wants to buy a Pioneer LV10 portable DVD-player that only plays Chinese Region 6 DVDs,    contact me through my website!Are mobiles ever a problem at your live gigs?I think people are a bit more aware that they have to switch them off now. I did a gig once where the same phone went off six times. After the fifth time it rang, I confiscated it and put it into a pint-glass and filled it with water. I just thought it was a bit of a laugh but the crowd were staring like I'd just killed a pensioner. I wasn't sure how I'd get them back but the phone rang while it was underwater - it even lit up!Can you tell a lot about someone from his or her ringtone?Pretty much. With the new polyphonic tones, I've now programmed mine to sound like the bell of an old phone going off!Visit:www.rossnoble.co.uk
I had always wondered how those viral emails or amusing web page addresses forwarded to me built up such momentum. Little did I know that I would be responsible for one of the most successful internet memes this year, and be accused of developing a so-called "Google bomb" of mass destruction.In early February, I was reading online a Guardian article about Hans Blix's problems obtaining cooperation in Iraq. Immediately after, I was confronted with the ubiquitous 404 error page, which usually tells the reader that a website is unavailable. With this serendipitous inspiration in mind, along with a text editor and some fiddling in a graphics package, I created aspoof 404 "weapons of mass destruction" error page. Saddam would have been proud; the page was deployed and operational well within 45 minutes.After favourable comments from friends, I posted it in the newsgroup uk.rec.humour. Within the next 24 hours, the website had had 150,000 hits and had propagated to 118 newsgroups. By the end of February, it had received more than one million page impressions. Perhaps the ultimate accolade was having the original email come back to me with a note saying: "Have you seen this?" Visits declined throughout the subsequent war, and I suspected its 15MB of fame had passed.Yet, suddenly, in the first four days of July I received nearly 4m page impressions, more than the previous five months combined. The reason? Typing "weapons of mass destruction" in Google and hitting the "I'm feeling lucky" button did not bring up Number 10's "dodgy dossier", but my spoof site. Suddenly, it was a lot funnier and accessible: even Google couldn't find the WMD.The first Google bomb was created byAdam Mathes in 2001. He exploited Google's page ranking system to return a friend's website when the words "talentless hack" were used as a search term. He used a multitude of pages linking to his friend's site, with the specific term "talentless hack". Even though his friend's site did not contain the search term itself, after calling upon others to insert such links into their sites, the Google bomb found its target.Google's page ranking treats links as votes for a website, and both the number and the importance of the link helps increase the ranking of a site. My site had steadily increased its ranking, including a link from the Channel 4 news website and the Guardian, but perhaps the majority were from personal pages, discussion boards and blogs.However, this was not a deliberate attempt to use Google to make a political point. This Google bomb was slowly and unknowingly built,   and only by chance coincided with the accusations that intelligence documents had been "sexed up".Last Friday, bloggers really picked up on it and it was the highest linked to page in weblogs according toDaypop.com. On Monday, however, a search for "weapons of mass destruction" sent you to a White House strategy document, which might be seen as a step forward for Google users and perhaps the White House.Then on Tuesday my page was back at the top, so it may have been a glitch at Google, rather than a deliberate decision to drop the site.This is a problem for Google:   weblogs have been accused of causing "noise" in their searches. Instead of providing good original source material, reams of musings from bloggers are returned. The success of my WMD page underlines a problem Google needs to address. Sure it's funny, but if you wanted documents on WMD, is that what you really expect from a search engine?I have received about 200 emails from such diverse sources as United Nations Monitoring, Verification and Inspection Commission and serving soldiers in the Gulf. Even those critical of the perceived anti-war message thought it was funny. One of the more offensive messages called me a   cowardly little boy and stated: "I am grateful to the almighty that not all Englishmen are slithering bottom-feeders."Ironically, I was not against the war, my views on the war being similar to those of journalist David Aaronovitch and MP Ann Clwyd. But if you are going to make a topical joke, then Bush is an obvious and easy target.&#183;Anthony Cox is a pharmacist at theWest Midlands Adverse Drug Reaction Monitoring Centreand a teaching fellow at Aston University. He also writes a blog on drug safety atwww.blacktriangle.org
Rural communities have felt excluded from the broadband revolution, with small towns and villages missing out on the initial roll-out of the technology that BT's wholesale arm supplies to internet service providers so they can offer fast, always-on internet access.Today, BT will go some way to address the broadband gap by expanding its year-old pre-registration scheme, enabling local communities to see how many potential broadband users they need to have in their area before BT will install the right technology in their phone exchange.If it opens up all the exchanges in the scheme, BT will be able to offer broadband access to 90% of the population, catapulting the UK to the top of the global broadband league.Not all the exchanges will be enabled immediately, but BT still   expects to have 85% coverage by March - more than two years ahead of initial estimates.Since it started, the scheme has set demand targets - known as trigger levels - for roughly 1,050 exchanges. Broadband has been rolled out to more than 300, on top of the more than 1,100 exchanges in major towns and cities BT had already opened up to fast internet access.BT will today publish trigger levels for more than 400 additional exchanges, taking the number of exchanges capable of providing broadband or waiting for the right level of demand to 2,600 - more than half its exchanges."The scheme has already been more successful than any of us could have imagined," says Paul Reynolds, head of BT's wholesale business and the man ostensibly in charge of wiring up UK homes to broadband   using DSL technology. "It has excited a lot of demand at the local level because it gives power to the individual and we cannot always know what the local dynamics are like."The first exchange switched on under the scheme was in Todmorden, West Yorkshire, and "there was nothing from any statistics ... that would suggest it would be the first to switch", says Reynolds.The scheme also saves the company money. BT's initial roll-out included some mistakes, such as a collection of exchanges in Wales that never attracted many users. On current estimates, BT will not make money for another 1,400 years.Under the pre-registration scheme, however, BT gets much of its marketing work done by local activists and knows there is enough demand before offering the technology.BT is helping more than 600 local   community groups drum up interest. One group, in Ribble Valley, was set up by an 11-year-old boy. His exchange is due to be opened up later this month.BT's rivals, however, maintain that the company deliberately dragged its feet on the roll-out so it could keep as much of the market as possible for itself, something that Paul Reynolds denies.&#183;To see if your exchange has been set targets visitwww.bt.com/broadband
Quick! Here comes the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) with a bag full of lawsuits. Delete all your dodgy MP3s, uninstall your peer-to-peer software and scrub your hard disk with cleanser.Isn't that what everyone is doing? Not according to Wayne Rosso, spokesman for Grokster, the popular P2P system. Since the RIAA recently made the announcement that they were going after individuals who swapped copyright protected music on P2P networks, Grokster's downloads have increased by 10%. "Users are sending a message to the RIAA. They're saying 'up yours'," says Rosso.Other P2P providers experienced only momentary dips in traffic. One reason Grokster did not experience a dip may be because its biggest user-base is in London. The RIAA will probably go after the 60m P2P users in its own country before fighting battles in foreign courts.But I don't feel entirely safe sharing my Charlie Mingus choons with the world when the RIAA is in such a litigious mood. They will probably come after me to set an example to the 100m P2P users outside the US. A born worrier, I was pleased to read   that a number of P2P providers have been working assiduously to bring anonymous P2P to the masses. Keen to stay ahead, I took a look at some of the RIAA get-arounds.BlubsterAt the end of last month, Madrid-based Optisoft, SL released Blubster version 2.5. It has been around for a while, but this new version promises full anonymity to users. Pablo Soto, Blubster's developer, has written a proprietary MP2P protocol which he describes as: "If other means of delivering media files could be compared with a postal system with an identifiable sender and receiver, then Blubster's proprietary MP2P network could be likened to throwing a bottled message into the ocean. The message may get to a destination, but no one knows the full path of its journey nor what is in each bottle."Blubster is a friendly application, so it is little wonder that the program has been downloaded 13m times. Blubster, aimed at your average P2P user, comes with an MP3 player, and supports the Ogg Vorbis file format (the open source compression and streaming technology). A word of warning, though: Blubster is bundled with Gator spyware. However, Hal Bring man, a Blubster spokesman, says you can download what is essentially Blubster, but without the spyware, from their sister company, Piolet.FiletopiaNot only does Filetopia use strong cipher encryption, it also uses a "bouncer" described as "a program that 'bounces' connections from one machine to another". That is, you connect to the machine where the bouncer resides, and this machine connects to another user's computer. This way, the user only sees the IP of the bouncer machine. But there is a price for anonymity. Downloads can be about as fast and reliable as a Virgin train.EarthStation5From Gaza City in Palestine, Ras   Kabir brings us EarthStation5, another anonymous P2P system that allows you to download via a proxy server. Kabir points out that this is not to be confused with a corporate firewall/proxy/socks proxy. ES5 allows users to send connection requests through intermediary proxy servers throughout the world so that the download destination of a file cannot be traced. On the plus side, ES5 is spyware free. However, it has more bugs than the Royal Entomological Society.WasteWaste was developed by AOL employee Justin Frankel. Frankel posted the application on the web without his employer's permission, and AOL has since been trying to stamp out proliferation of copies - a futile act.   Although Waste is really a chat and IRC program with CIA-proof cryptography, it can be used for file sharing among small groups of friends - a dozen people, say. The upper limit on the number of users in a cluster is 50. Given the sparseness of its screens and the lack of a help facility, I wouldn't recommend this to a novice.PeerGuardianPeerGuardian is not an anonymous system, but an add-on that blocks "enemy" IP addresses from accessing your files. If the RIAA wanted to snoop on me, they could see my files, but they couldn't download them. The problem is that the RIAA and other music and film industry representatives can keep changing IP addresses. PeerGuardian's list of blocked IP addresses has passed 4m and is growing.XSThe 23-year-old Englishman Tim Leonard, who developed PeerGuardian, has also developed XS, an anonymous P2P system. It offers file sharing, chat and instant messaging and employs a similar technique to Filetopia's bounce nodes.BlueTackBlueTack is another IP blocking system. Dominic Skey, who heads up BlueTack, takes blocks of IP addresses (lists of known hackers, the RIAA or anyone you don't want snooping around your hard drive), and converts them so they can be used with specific P2P programs.Skey warns that blocklists don't stop snoopers from looking at what you share, but makes their life more difficult. "Even the most complete blocklist will not prevent a determined corporate spy," he says. "They can easily use a residential dial-up account to masquerade as a home user. The only way to remain 100% protected, when using P2P apps which do not hide your IP address, is not to share copyrighted materials!"Ahem... this author does not condone the illegal sharing of copyright material. The above product reviews are for entertainment only.Peer-to-peer providersBlubsterwww.blubster.comPioletwww.piolet.comFiletopiawww.filetopia.orgEarthStation5www.earthstation5.comWasteFor obvious reasons, you'll have to find it yourselfPeerGuardianhttp://methlabs.org/methlabs.htmXShttp://methlabs.org/methlabs.htmBlue tackwww.bluetack.co.uk
Yet another piece of dotcom mania disappeared last week. Accenture, the giant management consulting firm, announced it had bought Election.com, a New York start-up that three years ago pioneered political elections on the internet. The Election.com name, which cost the original founders a fortune, died with the take-over.Accenture didn't buy the business out of altruism. It expects to make big money running electronic elections. And, despite the mixed results of recent e-voting pilots, many of those hopes are based in the UK."Europe is definitely ahead of the game in electronic voting," said Meg McLaughlin, chief executive of Accenture eDemocracy Services, a new venture formed under the Accenture umbrella. "The UK is probably furthest ahead of everybody." The UK has gone further than any major democracy in allowing voting by telephone, internet and post. E-voting is one service listed as part of the 2005 e-government target. Ministers have said in principle that an option of voting by the internet should be available in the general election after next.The US, which held the first legally binding internet election, the 2000 Arizona Democratic Primary, is treading more carefully. While the government is spending $2.6bn on modernising voting systems following the 2000 fiasco in Florida, the only Americans able to cast remote internet votes next year will be 100,000 service personnel posted overseas.The British government will decide on further e-voting after the Electoral Commission publishes an evaluation of May's local e-voting pilots at the end of this month. The pilots, held across 14 local authorities, were the world's largest e-voting experiment. In Sheffield alone, more than 20,000 voters cast ballots by text message, telephone and the internet.However, the jury is still out on whether the pilots achieved their main aim, increasing turnout. A study of the pilots, published last month by the Electoral Reform Society, found that only   three authorities saw turnouts rise over the last comparable elections. In almost all pilots, the proportion of the electorate e-voting was larger than the rise in turnout. This suggests that much of the take-up was by people who would have voted anyway.The society concluded: "E-voting increases convenience but does not increase the number of people who feel it is worthwhile voting. For this reason, it is our conclusion that electronic remote voting fails the government's test of increasing turnout."The Electoral Commission is unlikely to disagree. It will also point out that internet voting faces the same threats as other forms of remote voting - of coercion and lack of secrecy, for example. However, it is likely to give a cautious go-ahead to more e-voting trials. It has already strongly recommended that a fundamental building block of remote electronic voting, a national electronic electoral register, be created.One of the strongest arguments for going ahead may be that, once people have been offered an electronic vote for one election, it may be difficult to take it away. Surveys show that almost all the people who voted electronically in local elections would be happy to do so in general elections.This will be good news for Accenture and other firms such as Unisys, which is also building a Europe-wide e-voting business. McLaughlin advances another argument for e-voting: it could save money. "There's an initial capital investment, which is not inexpensive. But once you get there, the cost of using the internet drops quite rapidly." One way to keep the traditional channel open while cutting costs would be to have fewer polling stations open for longer, she suggests.An e-enabled general election in the UK in, say, 2006? "Yes, I believe we could do it and would be interested in doing it." But will governments be happy to turn the running of this "key public service" over to a multinational? Although Accenture's venture has its own executives and balance sheet, it is still within the Accenture firm, based in Bermuda.McLaughlin stresses the company's role is that of functionary. "We are a tool provider. We don't set policy."Meanwhile, a UK-based consulting firm, Barony, this week launched its own web-based e-voting system "available on a licence or rental basis". The firm also offers a set top box for voting via digital TV.
