Nintendo plays the yellow cardPokemon YellowGame Boy &#163;24.99 NintendoIs this a cynical cash-in or the definitive version of Pokemon on the Gameboy? Well, it's a bit of both actually. By adding   a tablespoon full of Pikachu and a sprinkle of the cartoon series, Nintendo has cooked up enough new features for the back of the box though any owners of the previous cartridgeswill be left feeling decidedly off colour.The reason? Pokemon Yellow is almost exactly the same game, albeit with a few cosmetic differences, the biggest of which is the omnipresence of Pokemon figurehead Pikachu.The little yellow blighter is with you from the off, and demands constant care and   attention.If you can cope with a sulking Pokemon then the other changes will be more bearable. The game now follows the plot of the cartoon more closely, meaning regular appearances for camp baddies Jesse and James.There is also a splash of colour with the battle scenes in particular looking a lot more vibrant. What else? Yellow allows you to print out your Pokemon collection via the rather nifty Game Boy Printer - a nice touch but one that has precisely no   effect on the game.Still, if you are one of the three or four Game Boy owners who doesn't own the older Red or Blue games then this is the one to go for, if only for the colour.Window dressing aside, you can't keep a good game down and Pokemon Yellow is certainly that. The game remains a fantastically compulsive trip into Game Boy addiction, but unfortunately it's one that most of us will have already taken.Not worth the long, long waitDaikatana PC&#163;39.99 Ion Storm/EidosThere's an old gag about a Russian man ordering a new TV. "We'll deliver it on April 8 2011.""Morning or afternoon?""Afternoon. Why?""The plumber's coming in the morning."People were starting to joke about Daikatana in the same way. In the course of three years, it's missed about a dozen different release dates (some of then promised as little as a week before) and suffered countless setbacks.Of course, this happens to lots of games (albeit never to quite this extent). The reason for the added fuss this time is that Daikatana is the brainchild of John Romero, he of Wolfenstein, Doom, Heretic,   Hexen and Quake fame.Romero's specific contribution to those games is unclear; after seeing this, I think he made the tea because very little of this first-person shooter is worth the three-year wait.It claims two "unique" selling points. The first is its use of teamplay (as seen in SWAT); as well as total control of the hero, Hiro, you have limited influence over two sidekicks, Mikiko and Super fly Johnson (will Superfly really be a trendy moniker in 500 years' time?), whom you can instruct to stay, come, back off, attack or pick up an object.You also, unfortunately, have to keep them alive for the duration of the game, and sharing out the game's limited resources between three adds unwanted complexity to an already demanding experience.The second innovation is   time travel (as seen in Day Of the Tentacle). On a quest to recover an ancient mystical sword, Hiro and friends travel through four different time periods, each subdivided into six levels. In a pleasing touch, each era features not just its own enemies but also its own unique weapons. However, since gameplay is so linear, the time aspect is superficial.The most refreshing thing about Daikatana is its unfolding   story; rather than just endless levels of increasingly hard combat, cut scenes and in-game developments add a sense of progress. You can also convert experience points into increased speed, power, attack speed, vitality or height of jump.It's hard to believe that the graphics needed three years' development. In spite of the game's cheekily high specifications (optimum configuration: Pentium III 500MHz+,   32MB Open GL-compliant video card), the characters are blocky and blotchy, movement is jerky, and the colours, particularly on the opening level, tend to blend into a murky mess.This often makes it hard to see where enemies are coming from until they're right on top of you.Which leads us neatly on to the general difficulty level. Take the first level: 80+ bad guys, several nasty gun turrets, about seven health packs. And two saves allowed. (Save points. In a PC game. Now there's time travel for you.) And that's on the easy setting.Normally, game reviewers aim to complete as much of a game as they can, in order to give it the most comprehensive review possible.And here I must hold up my hands: I have failed. Mainly because, after several dozen attempts, I simply could not finish the first level. Limited saves, tough enemies, problematic aiming, little health... stuff that for a game of soldiers.  (AB)The cutting edge of combatVagrant StorySony PlayStation	&#163;29.99 SquareThis is the kind of combat I like best: push a button and your opponent freezes.Now you can take your time selecting exactly where to hit him or it, with the help of a read-out that tells you   how much damage will be inflicted. And if the enemy strikes back, you can take a potion to restore your health.Which is not to imply that fighting is a minor part of Vagrant Story, which is released on June 23.It's an adventure role-playing game (RPG), much of which takes place in a series of underground rooms. Whenever you enter a room, have a sword handy, even if it's only to slash nasty bats.Getting from room to room often involves solving little puzzles, which often involve moving boxes around. Luckily   this is all very engaging, because the plot seems to have been inspired by a Japanese comic book about medieval myth and magic.Briefly, you play Ashley Riot, a member of the Valendia Knights of Peace's Riskbreaker squad. There are also Knights of the Crimson Blade, led by Romeo Guildenstern, who are fighting the Mullenkamp Cult, led by Sydney Losstarot. What it all means is a mystery - I'd be interested to read the novella. But as long as you follow the arrows and keep killing things, none of it seems to matter.And it must be said that   Vagrant Story is a luscious piece of work with beautifully integrated cut scenes. Almost every wall is a graphical masterpiece, and the 3D camera lets you explore each miniature scene: it's amazing that a PlayStation game can look this good. The sound effects are superb, too. The only thing that's missing is the spoken word: the characters talk in comic-book medieval English in comic-book bubbles.If you want another epic like Final Fantasy, this isn't it. Nonetheless, it's a minor masterpiece.  (JS)
Keep upIt is all right for Roy Murchie to ask for simple websites to accommodate his old PC (Feedback, June 8) but this is like asking for television to go back to VHF to allow for a few people that have old black and white televisions or people wanting Radio One back on MW because their radios are more than 10 years old.Times move on and Mr Murchie must accept that. The only thing holding his PC up is probably the speed of his modem and they only cost &#163;50 at the most.Laurian Dalleylaurian@btinternet.comSpam tipsPerhaps I might add a few tips for dealing with spam to those from Paul Truman (Weblife, June 8):&#149;  Never post anything on a Usenet newsgroup with your real email address in either the "from" or "reply-to" field. Spammers harvest addresses from Usenet and if they find your real address there, you'll soon hear from them. The normal method is to add extraneous characters to your address, preferably to the right of the "@", like "tony. green@talk21.nospam.com".&#149; Make sure you report all spam to SpamCophttp://spamcop.netwho can ensure that, whenever possible, a spammer's email address is reported to their ISP so they can close their account.&#149; Although a spammer's email address is usually fake, they are usually advertising sites with real email addresses for sales, enquiries etc. These are fair game for retaliatory flaming. For example I use Kmail's filtering function to catch emails from known spammers and respond to them with an ever-increasing number of replies.Tony Greentony.green@talk21.comWeb tonicAs the business development manager for a New Zealand-based online pharmacy, I read the article about online health   advice and medicine sales with interest.While we do not advocate the use of the internet as a replacement for a personal consultation with one's GP or pharmacist, nor for the sale of prescription medicines, the net has the potential to play a very important role.Consider this. In the UK a popular skincare product sells for &#163;31.50. We deliver the same product to a customer's door in the UK for approximately &#163;23.50 inclusive of delivery (all necessary documentation is completed and we do not ship prescription medicines). This is not an isolated case.We specialise in selling healthcare products and cosmetics to countries where prices are kept artificially high. The US is a good example. We ship stop-smoking products to thousands of customers in the US by international courier for less than half the price they pay in their local drugstore.Surely, this is what the internet is about: empowering people and breaking down barriers.Dr Jonathan Tomlinsonpyxis@clear.net.nzApple's waitWhile I enjoyed reading Tony Smith's well-informed article about Mac OS X (Online, June 8) - kudos to him for mentioning the usually-forgotten Pink and Taligent efforts - he has missed one potentially important angle in the OS X saga.According to postings by apparently well-informed sources on several Mac news bulletin boards and websites, the OS X public beta this summer will be a beta in name only, not the unfinished piece of software suggested by Smith.These sources claim that the decision to call the summer release a "public beta", and the delay in releasing a shrink-wrapped version of OS X, is not due to Apple failing to get its act together or to there still being major work to be done on the system, but to developers failing to get their fingers out and produce Carbonised versions of their programs. Much of the impact of the OS X launch would be lost without a reasonable selection of OS X-ready programs to run on it.Not even Microsoft, the largest developer of Mac programs outside Apple itself and the producer of the key Office software package, has clearly committed to Carbonising the next version of   Office for Macs (to be called Office 2001 and reportedly due out around September).Cameron Patersoncameronp@lineone.netWindows woePeter Rockett (Feedback, June 8) put his finger on it when he stated that he used Windows NT, and that he couldn't speak for Windows 95/98.From personal experience, and from everything I have heard from others, NT is a far more stable system than 95/98. There are many of us who work at home on a single PC (and I assure you, the kit I use is of excellent pedigree) who have had to use 95/98, and have had to put up with an unacceptable amount of crashes, etc.Perhaps Mr Rockett should realise that NT and 95/98 are not the same product before blaming the consumer over dear old Microsoft!Pete Grantpetey@wellwisher.freeserve.co.ukDying wordsI have to agree with Peter Rockett: most Windows (9x or NT) crashes are due to faulty hardware, incompatible drivers, badly written application software or users carrying out over ambitious projects for the limited resources they have.The NT "blue screen of death" is a term bandied around by users who just reset their machines after a crash. But how many of them have actually read what the blue screen says?It actually tells you why the computer crashed in terms you don't have to be able to read machine code to understand. And if that's not enough, NT has dumped its memory to disk so you can send it to Microsoft so they can tell you what the problem is.Since I've been reading the blue screens rather than just resetting I've resolved all the problems that caused crashes and none have them have been the OS's fault.Mike Tippingmike.tipping@dps-int.comBill Gates and his Microsoft team have brought untold benefit to the world. Did George Stephenson attract similar snide hostility with his steam railway engine, or Alexander Bell with his telephone?Philip A.Millardhog@ogauge.co.uk
The singing matchboxForever losing your tiny MP3 player? Well look away now. Hitting the stores this month is the world's smallest MP3 Player (for this week anyway) from German company Vivanco.The size of matchbox, the Vmax sits quite happily in the palm of your hand and weighs a paltry 30 grams.  The &#163;150 player comes with a 32MB-multimedia card and features three music settings. Accessories include a multimedia card reader and software, USB connector and micro headphones.Vivanco intends to offer a range of optional add-ons to support the player namely, upper arm and belt clips and bags.Listen to my filmFurther evidence that within a couple of years every single electronic device you own will feature an   MP3 player has been submitted by Fuji. The company has announced the Japanese release of an MP3-equipped digital camera the FinePix 40i which it hopes to bring to the UK in September.The &#163;500 camera boasts 4 million pixels and comes with a 8MB SmartMedia card. As this will only give you a couple of minutes of your favourite tunes you can of course, add cards with significantly higher storage capacities.If you can't wait until autumn, then the company has also unveiled a pair of new budget models.According to Fuji, the &#163;349 FinePix 1400 Zoom and &#163;249 MX-1200 are feature-rich entry-level cameras which are designed to be simple to use.Both models feature a SmartMedia card, intelligent signal processors, and a USB cable. They are on sale now.
Picture thisOlympus C-3030 Zoom&#163;799.99Olympus Optical's new C-3030 Zoom is one of the first affordable cameras to take   pictures at 3.1 megapixels, which gives a maximum on-screen resolution of 2048 x 1536 dots. It's small but can deliver very high quality images (uncompressed files weigh in at 16 megabytes each).The 3030Z does let you choose between shutter- and aperture-priority exposure or manual operation, three "film speeds" (100, 200, and 400 ISO) with exposure bracketing, and multiple flash modes. You can set slow shutter speeds (up 16 seconds on manual), and operate the shutter using a wireless remote control. You can focus the lens manually, using a readout on the LCD   screen on the back of the camera, or take a three-minute QuickTime digital movie with sound.There are 15 picture formats and a 16 megabyte SmartMedia storage card can   hold up to 165 images in VGA quality (640 by 480 pixels) mode.I tended to use the HQ (high quality) mode which takes 20 pictures in 700K .jpg   format. The 3030Z comes with serial and USB cables for transferring pictures to a PC or Mac when the storage card is full. A PC Card and floppy disk adapter is available for easier file transfers.The 3030Z has a 3x aspheric glass f/2.8 zoom lens but you have to wait for this to extend itself from the body when the camera is turned on.While the 3030Z works well in snapshot mode, using the advanced functions can be tedious, because most settings are on submenus on the LCD screen. For example, the exposure mode change is the last option on a long menu.At first I found it tedious scrolling all the way down to it - then I realised it took only one keypress to scroll up to it.I also grew to love the Quickview mode: after you've taken a picture, this is flashed up on the LCD so you can have a quick look without turning the screen on and off.As for the apparently pointless remote control, you can also use it to give slide shows with the camera plugged in to a TV set using the cable supplied, and the built-in microphone means you can add four second soundbites to your "slides".
Tell us about Software AG.We're a German-based company and are the largest systems software supplier in Europe. We have two core competencies. The first is data management. The second area is what is called application engineering and integration.We produce mission critical systems software end services for banks, the industrial and automotive areas of business, seaports and rail networks.We also deal with a great many public sector organisations and administrations from government level right through toScotland Yardand theCIA.What are Software AG's main products?The best known is the database called Adabas. We have customers in the banking market who are doing up to 300 million database transactions per day. We also have a product called Natural which is an application development system solely for business applications.How important is e-commerce to you?In 1997 we had to ask: "Where is the industry going?" We decided that the internet was going to be the business platform for all kinds of transactions and interactions between companies. This might sound a bit obvious now but it 	wasn't quite so clear back then. Being a German company, and because of the German gene structure, we tend to do things very orderly and pragmatically. We realised that if you accept that the web is going to be the platform for business then you have to migrate the industry towards the web.The first step to moving on to the web is to make applications talk to each other that were never designed to do so. Therefore we made a middleware product at the end of 97 called Entire X based on a Microsoft standard called DCOM.We also have a product called Bolero which, put simply, is a tool to help customers write very large, heavy commerrcial transactions applications. We also have Tamino which is the first database written for real genuine web data purposes.Why do you feel XML is going to be so important?It radically simplifies the 	distribution, exchange and publishing of digital information. It's also an industry standard because it was invented, and is being managed, by independent industry consortiumW3Cso they make sure that this is something that no one vendor can tweak or twist to its own advantage.The beauty of it is that once you have one XML document it is unbelievably simple to exchange it. This way you'll be able to read any kind of document from Unix, Macintosh or mainframe from outer space without employing software to translate it.It's not going to be the final answer for all disease in the world but it's a major step forward in improving our productivity.Any favourite places on the web?I think theSky sitehere in the UK is very innovative and cutting-edge.
It's not just a baby that changes your life. The long weeks that led up to the birth of my son Oscar on Saturday, changed me more than I would have thought. I became used to my large bump that frequently collided with door handles. I know the location of every public convenience in south-west London and my wardrobe has abandoned style in favour of comfort (the two are in no way entwined).I also became the ultimate pregnancy bore. No sentence was complete without a reference to pelvic floor exercises or my new Advent breast pump. Time, in more ways than one, to get a life.I cannot entirely blame Miriam Stoppard and her excellent Pregnancy and Childbirth companion. The bulk of my new found knowledge has come from the world wide web. At my first antenatal appointment, a leaflet forwww.babyworld.co.uknestled among the free nappies and surplus of product information.In the early stages I went to the pregnancy specific siteswww.motherandbaby.co.uk,andwww.webbaby.co.ukas well as numerous American affiliateswww.pregnancytoday.comandwww.babycenter.comwho cover pretty much the same ground; medical questions are answered, advice given on conception, birth announce ment e-cards, chat boards, baby galleries and even the occasional birth video.Designed within a standard format, the sites cover exactly what the manuals and the magazines do, in less detail. There are some nice touches: every week I am emailed a weekly update of both my own and the baby's development (just enter your due date and email address). If, on the other hand, you are searching for some cerebral excitement then these "bump sites" and their bland magazine formula can soon lose their appeal.You may be able to uncover the mystery that is pregnancy and childbirth and learn your baby wipes from your muslin squares, but the residual pulp does not give birth to much excitement. In my search for stimulation on my favourite topic online, I had to look further afield.A news site,www.wired.com, was a little more enlightening. Searching on "pregnancy", I found an excellent article about spina bifida babies and the latest radical in-utero surgery that is both saving lives and stirring up great debate in the medical profession.Is the internet blatantly promoting miracles instead of sound medical and scientific advice? The article also linked to an affected parents web site. Pregnant women are all too aware of the risks of   birth defects and I found the latest medical opinions from a reliable source invaluable.Pregnancy does not just affect women.www.boots.co.ukhas an excellent feature on men and pregnancy. The web offers a wealth of sites on conception, contraception and fertility. Trywww.fertilitytest.co.ukandwww.hfea.gov.ukwho provide detailed advice and information to the public. HFEA also have an excellent guide to UK IVF clinics. The British Pregnancy Advisory Service also have a good web site atwww.bpas.org.For me, however, there is no looking back. Time to remember my Girl Guide training and "get prepared". First I went towww.lloydstsb.co.ukfor an overdraft and then checked out some of the numerous baby product sites.Most manufacturers have their own sites and search engines were fairly efficient at finding a required product.www.greenbabyco.comhas a good site that lists environmentally friendly products and the most crucial item for any green mama, reusable nappies (8 million disposables are thrown away every day so it is worth considering the alternatives).Activebirthcentre.comalso lists good information about alternative antenatal classes and birthing therapies. You can also try the National Childbirth Trusts web site atwww.nct-online.orgfor slightly   more traditional classes, contacts and good information.Trywww.lilliput.comfor baby equipment and furniture.Mothercare.co.ukalso provide online catalogues for all your essential needs and offer a far more informed service on line than you get in the stores.Again, the more specific information you have beforehand, the most successful your search.Try keying in your pushchair manufacturer  (www.mamasandpapas.co.ukfor example) to get photographs and prices direct from the horse's mouth. It can save time and money.Not only information can help your rapidly expanding girth and overdraft. Maternity clothing manufacturers advertise online, and shopping from home undoubtedly saves aching ankles and unwitting jabs to the belly by Saturday shoppers.Recommended sites includewww.bloomingmarvellous.co.ukandwww.jojomamanbebe.co.uk.Handbag.comoffered some constructive advice about how to stay fashionable while pregnant (do a Patsy or Meg and refuse to cover the bump). For sheer cost-effectiveness and comfort I would recommend big knickers and staying at home.I was trying to surf up to the last minute, even with my bump spilling over the keyboard. Despite this discomfort there was one one web site that got a daily visit -www.womens-health.co.uk/pain.htm.A riveting and truly interesting read.
There is a new walk on the streets of Tokyo these days. It is too slow to be a stroll and too purposeful to be a wander. In crowds, it often results in the odd stumble, bump and mumbled apology. But it is no drunken stagger either. The legs know where they have to go, but the eyes are too preoccupied to chart a clear course.Suddenly it is cool not to look where you are going in Japan. Why? Because you are engrossed in the latest way to surf the "wireless web" - a mobile phone and internet service called i-mode.I-mode (the "i" is for information) is the first system to put cyberspace in subscribers' pockets 24 hours a day with cheap and continuous access to a range of information services. Technically sophisticated, but simple to use, it is tipped as the next big thing to come out of the land of the Walkman, the Game Boy and the PlayStation.What's the big deal? Britons can already use their cell phones to get online and exchange email messages using the wireless application protocol (Wap) system. Like i-mode, Wap phones do not access the internet as we know it - rather a cut down version designed to work on small screens.But, while Wap and i-mode are rivals, their contest is in danger of turning into a mismatch between a weedy infant and a bodybuilding giant. In terms of cost, popularity, ease of use and commercial success, Wap is being whipped. It may have been adopted last summer as the European standard, but it has been slow to take off,   whereas i-mode is here, now and changing millions of livesSince its launch in February 1999, the system has transformed Japan from an online laggard into one of the fastest growing online markets in the world. With 7 million subscribers, i-mode is the country's most popular online portal. At current rates of growth it will make Japan the first country in the world where mobiles are more popular than PCs as a way of getting into cyberspace, and 600,000 new customers signing up every month have put i-mode on course to overtake America Online (AOL) as the planet's leading online portal by the middle of 2002. The service is so popular that its operator, NTT DoCoMo, had to halt sales and advertising temporarily last month because demand kept crashing the system.Meanwhile investors have made DoCoMo the hottest company in Japan. Last year, it overtook the motor manufacturer Toyota to become the country's most   valuable corporation.In Tokyo's trendy Shibuya district, the system is changing the way people look, sound and spend their time.For Yoko Uenishi, a 17-year-old high school girl, a stylish i-mode phone completes a look that includes bleached grey hair, white eyeshadow and precariously high-platformed sandals."I bought it because it looked cool and all my friends had one," she says. "But now I use it all the time, especially when I want to kill time on the train."Her phone - a tiny, ultra-light, metallic pink device that flips open like a Star Trek communicator - is decorated with a designer strap and stickers of cartoon characters. To personalise it even further, she has downloaded a Hello Kitty animation for the 3cm by 5cm screen inside and a pop song melody that plays when she has a call or a new email. Each day, she picks a new image and tune, for which 100 yen (60p) is added to her monthly phone bill.Like most teens, Yoko mainly uses i-mode for email. She reckons she sends and receives about 15 messages a day - which means clicking away at tiny phone pad buttons until her fingers ache. But she also checks her horoscope each morning, books concert tickets and follows the latest chart news - which, naturally, includes a new top 10 of downloaded melodies.But i-mode is not just child's play. Through more than 13,000 sites, subscribers can book airline tickets, trade stocks or find a lover. Date clubs are said to be particularly popular among would-be adulterers because i-mode offers more anonymity than a phone and a less risk of being   discovered than a PC. One site provides information about the nearest available love hotel.Keiji Matsuo, a broker at one of Japan's biggest securities houses, is a recent convert, but finds that the service already fills up a large part of his day. Each morning, he gets a wake-up call from i-mode, then uses it to check what happened on the New York stock market while he was asleep. The latest analysts' reports are emailed to him when he is out of the office and he clicks onto the net to show clients the latest share prices. Last thing at night, he checks the London markets before he goes to bed."It's fun, it's useful, it's lighter than a laptop and quieter than a mobile phone," he enthuses. "Best of all it is cheap so my wife doesn't get angry." He spends less than &#163;5 a month on i-mode, including the basic &#163;2 fee.It may not sound much, but analysts say i-mode is creating a revolutionary new pattern of consumption. The buzz word is micro-niches - tiny purchases that can be made while walking along the street or waiting for a train. Until now, these have been impossible because of the costs of distribution and billing, but with i-mode the marketplace is in your pocket and the cash register   is your monthly phone bill.Because i-mode offers continuous access to the internet, there is no need to dial up and wait for a response and most sites can also be accessed with just a few button clicks rather than typing out web addresses.Yet the service is far cheaper than using a personal computer and landline because charges are based not on time, but on the volume of data downloaded. Receiving five short emails costs about 10 yen (6p), while the charge for checking a train timetable or the weather is unlikely to be more than 10p. You do not need a credit card - these transactions are automatically put on your phone bill.This allows almost unconscious consumption. It is as though DoCoMo and partners have found a way to package plankton and sell it to whales.The toy maker Bandai, for example, earns about &#163;600,000 a month from a website that simply provides a different picture each day for i-mode users to download onto their screens. More than a million people pay 60p a month for this service.DoCoMo president, Keiji Tochikawa, says simplicity is the key: "We hope customers will use our next generation of mobile phones to exchange information as naturally as they breathe air."These microniches are already generating huge   revenue. According to the Nomura Research Institute, i-mode's 7 million subscribers spend an average of 1,600 yen (&#163;10.60) per month on content. This means big bucks for DoCoMo, which gets 9% of the fee for every cartoon character, melody or news service that is downloaded.On top of this, DoCoMo rakes in monthly subscription fees of 300 yen per person and 0.3 yen (a fifth of a penny) for each 128-bit package of data received or transmitted.For the first full year that i-mode was in operation, DoCoMo racked up record profits of 252.1bn yen (&#163;1.6bn), a jump of 23% from the previous 12 months. Much more is to come, according to fore casts that the wireless market will grow fivefold by 2003."This is just the beginning," said Kaji Nishigaki, president of NEC, which makes handsets. "Within three years everyone will be on i-mode."Currently the system is a prototype available only in Japan, but DoCoMo has plans to make it smoother, faster and more widely accepted.From next spring, it will the first company in the world to introduce a third generation mobile communication system that it says will allow data transmission at 15 times the existing speed of 9.6 kilobits per second. By 2003, the company hopes to raise the pace further to a blistering two megabits per second,   swift enough for webcasts, interactive games and video conferencing.This is frightening news for European telecommunication companies, which are at least a year behind.Until recently, it was widely believed that i-mode would be difficult to export because of technical standards, security concerns and cultural differences.However DoCoMo has begun to move aggressively into overseas markets. Last year, it formed partnerships with global giants Microsoft and Sun Microsystems. Last month it bought a bridgehead in Europe with a &euro; 5bn stake in KPN, a Dutch mobile phone company. It has also paid $5bn for 20% of Voice System, the US cellphone firm.Further takeovers and tie-ups are expected as DoCoMo becomes evangelical about its system. It will be hard to resist. As the world's most valuable telecommunications company, DoCoMo has an almost bottomless war chest as well as the backing of its politically powerful former parent company, NTT.Unless Wap gets moving, European consumers could be the next ones doing the i-mode walk.In Japan, there has been no contest between i-mode and Wap. The EZ system (based on Wap) is faster and technically superior, but i-mode is cheaper and has greater marketing clout. Who says the best man wins? Remember VHS vs Betamax.i-modeCompany:NTT DoCoMoSpeed:9.6 kbpsSubscribers:About 7 millionStandard:cHTMLSites:13,000Outline:The cheapest and most popular way onto the wireless web. Uses packet switching system to offer continuous connection. Able to tap into 30 million mobile phone customer base of DoCoMo.EZaccess and EZ webCompanies:IDO and Tu-KaSpeed:Up to 64 kbpsCombined subscribers:Less than 2 millionStandard:HDML (handheld device markup language)Site numbers:Less than 500Outline:Second most popular system, but far less content because the relative difficulty of HDML has deterred many site designers.J-SkywebCompany: J-PhoneEstimated subscribers:Less than 2 millionCode:MML (mobile markup language). Very similar to cHTMLSpeed:9.6 kbpsSite numbers:Less than 500.Outline:Clearest colour images. In third place at present, however it is seen as the main rival for i-mode because its programming code is so similar and because it also offers continuous access.
LVMH will reveal details of the first roll-out of E-luxury.com portal next week. Group chief executive Myron Ullman said that the US launch of E-luxury, which will carry LVMH's own top brands such as Louis Vuitton, Givenchy and Tag Heuer, is imminent.Though the portal will carry most of the group's top brands, it will not offer, at least initially, LVMH's wines and spirits products which range from Mo&euml;t &amp; Chandon champagne and Chteau d'Yquem, one of the world's most expensive wines, through to Hennessy cognac, because of the complex licensing laws in the US.LVMH is planning to bring E-luxury.com to Europe "subsequent to the US being successful," said Mr Ullman.Investment in E-luxury.com and the beauty products internet operation Sephora.com is expected to total around &euro;100m this year. The group is also continuing to expand its 300-strong chain of Sephora stores, particularly in the UK.British expansion will bring Sephora into competition with established departments stores and with Boots - a confrontation not lacking in irony as Sephora used to be the Boots brand name in France.Mr Ullman remains upbeat about LVMH's prospects for online retailing and shrugs off the fate of Boo.com, in which LVMH chairman Bernard Arnault held an 8% stake through his family holding company Group Arnault."It was not a failure because of the internet," said Mr Ullman. "Boo.com tried to do too much and there were too many investors so that when things started to go wrong, there was no one really to step in."Mr Ullman confirmed that LVMH, which is building up its watches and jewellery division, would be interested in the watch brands which Vodafone acquired when it bought the German group Mannesmann and which are now up for sale.
Microsoft's shares enjoyed a respite yesterday as dealers interpreted a surprise move by the courts to hear the company's appeal as providing a ray of hope that the computer group might not be split in two.In early trading the shares reached $70 (&#163;43), up more than $3 but still well below the $120 at which they were changing hands six months ago.One analyst said the mood had swung strongly in Microsoft's favour after the appeal court in Washington indicated it wanted to be given the chance to consider the appeal by Microsoft.This was because the appeal court had ruled in Microsoft's favour on two other occasions during the three-year legal wrangle.The stance taken by the appeal court came late on Tuesday when Microsoft's lawyers took the first steps towards asking for a stay to the landmark ruling made by Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson last week which set out stern action against Microsoft on anti-competition grounds.It appears to complicate the sequence of the potential appeal, which the government has indicated it would like to see take place in the supreme court, the highest in the US. Legal experts suggested that the unusual move by the appeal court might deter the supreme court from deciding to hear the case if the lower court were able to hear it more quickly.However, Judge Jackson, who appears to have infuriated Microsoft by giving interviews before handing out his final ruling, could still ask the supreme court to take the case. The appeal process is still far from certain and could still take months to be concluded, a factor acknowledged by Bill Gates, Microsoft's chairman."Our position is simple. This is a case that will be decided by a higher court," he said. "The principles that apply in terms of 'was Microsoft's behaviour pro-competitive in every respect?', that's already been stated in every respect."He said that an appeal was a standard right in the US. "It's hard to say exactly -probably in the order of 12 months before a decision comes down," he added.Microsoft is arguing that the judge's ruling, and his determination that his order should take effect in 90 days, would have "far reaching and irreversible consequences".The computer company is claiming that the judge committed "an array of serious substantive and procedural errors that infected virtually every aspect of the proceedings".
Included free with Windows 2000 will be a computerised edition of the game Monopoly. In this version, Microsoft already owns every property from Old Kent Road to Mayfair and you just go round and round giving the company lots of money. You try to tell yourself it is not fixed, but when Bill Gates wins second prize in a beauty competition you can't help being suspicious.For the past two years, in a legal battle more difficult to understand than the Microsoft user's manual, the computer giant has been found guilty of anti-competitive practices and abusing its monopoly power. Considering how aggressively Microsoft has consistently stamped on any competition, its lawyers really should have seen this lawsuit coming, but then this is the company whose computers failed to foresee that the year 2000 would follow 1999, so you can't presume anything.Now an American judge has ordered Gates to spell out, in detail, how he is going to break up his company - which should be interesting. After four hours the judge will stop him and say: "Sorry, just going back a bit there, can you explain what a mouse-mat is again?"Since losing the case Bill Gates has seen his personal wealth drop by around $25bn, so he has had to postpone the loft conversion that he and his wife had been saving up for. Internet Explorer will probably no longer be given free with Windows, which means that the poor customer will end up having to pay more to look at hardcore pornography and white supremacist sites. It is of course true that Microsoft has stifled competition, but just a moment . . . who is it that is saying that this sort of behaviour is unacceptable? The United States government! This would be like Gates telling Clinton he's a bit nerdy. There are a number of monopolies in this world but the US has a monopoly of all of them.Of course, this case is not really about free trade. It is a battle between the world's most powerful country and the world's most powerful company. It is the first flashpoint in the new cold war between nation states and corporations. More battles between the giants will follow; Japan versus Sony, Korea versus Daewoo, Britain versus Top Shop. America won the first cold war on behalf of capitalism. And what thanks do they get? Capitalism then proceeds to push America aside and the next struggle ensues.Gates should now hit back by counter-suing the US for operating anti-competitive practices. He would have a very good case. As a government, the US has consistently stifled free trade. Tiny independent operators like Cuba and Nicaragua have been virtually forced out of business and all sorts of international laws broken in the process.With the kind of breath- taking arrogance that you only get from the leaders of world superpowers and 17-year-old public school boys, America actually attempted to make it illegal for European countries to trade with Cuba; the case against America is even greater than the one against its richest citizen. Like Microsoft the US has a variety of operating systems; in the Balkans they used Nato, but the World Trade Organisation, the World Bank and even the United Nations itself have all been called into play at various times. This will probably be the last European football championship in which a team from Europe is allowed to win.Any fair-minded judge would have to agree that like Microsoft, the US has abused its monopoly of power and must therefore be broken up. It has refused to operate a level playing field and so must be separated into its   constituent parts. Dividing it between north and south is one option, but this was tried before apparently, and caused all sorts of problems. You could split it between Democrats and Republicans or Pepsi and Coke drinkers or between the pro- and anti-gun lobby, though this might be a bit unfair if another civil war broke out. But the American courts have ruled that monopolies should not be allowed to dominate and so the US must be as good as its word. If Microsoft Windows is not allowed to give you free bundled software, then each Americanised country should not automatically get a McDonald's in every high street and Jerry Springer repeats on their TV channels.There must be a way of dividing America up so that we continue to get Seinfeld and ER, but are not compelled to get the rest of the American culture that is bundled in with it. Can we have the films without having to watch the speeches at the Oscars? Can we have the music without the graffiti on our subways? The break up of America will be such a complex job that somebody will have to design a computer programme to do it. If only Microsoft hadn't been fragmented. It probably had a free programme on Windows 2000 that could have done it all for us.comment@guardian.co.uk
Anyone who has been following it has long known that the government's RIP (Regulation of Investigatory Powers) bill is a time bomb waiting to explode.The government has casually brushed aside strong objections of civil liberty lobbies on the grounds they don't have many votes. It is only - at the eleventh hour - when business has suddenly woken up to the dangers it presents to e-commerce that the government is being forced to take serious notice.It reads like a script that would have been deemed unrealistic for an update of the film 1984. Under the terms of the bill - which is going through its committee stage in the Lords this week - every internet service provider will have to install a black box with a direct line to MI5.This would enable the intelligence authorities to monitor the pattern (though not the content) of all our emails and internet habits and chat room visits - who we send emails to and which web sites we visit.Further powers enable the authorities on production of a warrant to demand our passwords or encryption keys under pain of two years in jail. If you have forgotten your password (a daily occurrence for many net users) then you will be presumed guilty until proved innocent by the courts.Bang goes another principle of British justice - that a person is innocent until proved guilty.If MI5 demand that you hand over your personal or corporate encryption key then you could be liable for five years imprisonment if you tell your boss or your spouse.Last week the government started to wake up when the Institute of Directors published a critical report. But that was mild beer compared with a devastating report over the weekend by the British Chambers of Commerce drawn up by an expert panel including professor Ian Angell of the London School of Economics.It dismisses the bill as "entirely inadequate" in its primary aim of achieving reasonable surveillance and its effect "is likely to be loss of confidence in e-commerce, unacceptable costs to business and to the UK economy, confusion and uncertainty at numerous levels of business activity, and an onerous imposition on the rights of individuals".The penny may at last be starting to drop in Whitehall.If this bill goes through in its present form, far from making Britain the best place to do e-commerce in (as is Tony Blair's stated aim) it will produce one of the most draconian regimes in the world driving e-commerce to safer havens like Ireland and most countries in Europe.Unless Tony Blair wants to create a furore that will make this encounter with the Women's Institute seem like a picnic, he should rewrite this appalling bill. Now.
Along with its opportunities, the new economy has thrown up another instance of Britain's north-south divide.Patricia Hewitt, e-commerce minister, acknowledges that the north largely remains reliant on manufacturing, battered by the strong pound, while internet investment is concentrated in the south.The government's regional development agencies, promoting technology investment at local level, have partly offset this dichotomy, she says.The next step has been to introduce IT training programmes, particularly in the north. "The skills shortage of information technology workers in this country has become a huge problem. We are investing in training people in this area, particularly those who have lost jobs in an industry that is contracting."The electronic communications bill aims to alleviate the skills shortage by making it easier for British firms to hire foreign IT specialists, but this has caused disquiet at the Home Office, which argued this encourages economic migration.The department of trade and industry is confident of victory. At stake, it argues, is the need to ensure that Britain does not drop out of the race to dominate cyberspace. At present 8m Britons are online but this is expected to explode as more consumers gain access to the internet via digital television and mobile phones."It's absolutely essential to our economic wellbeing and competitive position that we ensure there is mass internet access that is low cost," Ms Hewitt says. "The aim is to give people internet access without the cost and constraint of the personal computer."The government has been pushed into coming to grips with the information age by not only getting itself online but also working with other countries to create international frameworks. One fear of technology sector has been that the British and other European governments will move to over-regulate the internet. Britain has the largest e-commerce market in the European Union and Ms Hewitt denies she will apply a regulatory dead hand to this thriving sector."There are a number of changes that are happening and we are looking for an effective system of co-regulation," she says, pointing to private industry bodies such as the Internet Watch Foundation. "All the way through our position has been to manage what the government can do in this field, which is quite limited. Our job is to make sure there is an efficient environment."The government has moved towards making the internet attractive to small business by introducing in the Budget 100% tax write-offs for investment in e-commerce or new information technology.However, the government   will have to decide soon whether the fast-converging areas of telecoms and broadcasting still need separate regulators. A statement is expected later in the year.Ms Hewitt says she wants to eliminate another British dichotomy: that between the new and old economies.Many a "traditional" industry is a big investor in new technology, she argues. "If you are a textiles company it seems the thinking is that you must be in decline and not worth investing in. That's deeply wrong."
Pawan Prasad is unabashed when he says Indian software engineers and web designers are the best information technology staff you could hire.He points out that 38% of IT staff in the US are of Indian origin.Certainly the shortage of software skills has thrown open exciting opportunities for Indian software companies such asPolaris, which Mr Prasad manages, especially in Britain.Gordon Brown gave a helpful push when he announced in the last Budget plans to relax working restrictions on programmers, designers and other key computer staff.They will fill some of the 100,000 vacancies in the IT sector, according to the National Computing Centre, and give a lift to Britain as it plays   catch-up with America.Polaris provides software applications to clients including Citibank, Reuters, the Nigerian Bank and NEC.Finding qualified staff for his offices in London and Reading is one of Mr Prasad's main occupations. "It seems to be a major problem that there are not enough IT staff,"Like California's Silicon Valley, England's technology hub has a "floating" work force from which contractors could be sourced, he says.However, Mr Prasad does not appear to be too worried, if only because 80% of the 1,600 staff the company employs are located in India.Polaris stresses speed, low cost and high quality in its products. However, low labour costs are where Polaris gains its edge. The company entered   Britain in June 1998 and now employs 14 staff here. Much of its work is transmitted to India where its programmers design tailor-made packages.If the program needs to be installed, consultants are flown from India to do the job.Mr Prasad says it is cheaper than having a large workforce based in Britain, especially when staff can be seconded to clients for six months to a year.Polaris is expanding under a plan based on organic growth that has so far seen turnover rise to &#163;1m in Britain "This year we will be banking a profit," Mr Prasad boasts.The firm is backed   by an impressive history; it was started in 1983 by three entrepreneurs with total capital of &#163;150. They now run a company that turns a profit of &#163;27m.The company is listed on the Indian stock exchange, but the determination to grab investors and customers from east and west should lead to a Nasdaq listing once volatility in net stocks has subsided.
Along the M4 corridor construction cranes fight for space against the billboard size names of trail-blazing multinationals such asMicrosoft,OracleandMotorola.Technology companies and internet start-ups have spread west from Slough to Swindon, sweeping up Reading, Maidenhead and Newbury to create England's silicon corridor.The emergence of the new economy has seen US companies flock to the Berkshire countryside. More than 40% of the technology companies along the M4 have US roots and their investment in the area has given rise to an internet gold rush. The region ranks only behind London in terms of wealth in England, with a gross domestic product of &#163;25bn for a population of just 2m.Even diehard valley types from California have been lured here. "I lived in silicon valley in California for 22 years and watched it grow from a pretty small operation. Something similar is happening in this area, especially with the internet boom on top of the technology boom," says Jim Ambras, vice president of engineering at AltaVista's European headquarters in Maidenhead.Silicon valley's cash culture has also arrived. The local newspaper in Reading claims that rents for a two-bedroom flat are on a par with London at between &#163;600 and &#163;900 a month. It appears there are as many BMWs as Ford Mondeos. Recruitment agencies litter the town centre, their windows plastered with ads begging for call centre staff, data entry employees or information managers.Gridlock along M4The hotels are full and at least a further three are on the drawing board to be developed to meet the demand. Peter Sullivan, director of sales and marketing at the Renaissance Hotel, said: "Ten years ago Reading was not the sort of place you would consider going to, but now all that has changed. Now they're sayingCisco, one of the largest companies in the world, is looking to move their UK headquarters here."Mr Sullivan is one of the lucky ones. He brought his home on the Reading outskirts in the seventies for a tenth of what people are now paying to climb aboard the area's booming property market.Progress brings it problems. The most frequently heard gripe is that the local infrastructure has failed to keep up with the explosion of people and new business.The gridlock of traffic along the M4 and the ineffectiveness and unpredictability of public transport are the main complaints of three in four companies in the area, according to a survey by the Thames Valley Economic Partnership.However bad the situation here - it is still better than in the US. "This area has a lot of great things going for it, especially commuting which is nothing like silicon valley where for some people it can be a two-hour journey each way," said Mr Ambras of AltaVista. The US-based search engine and internet portal employs about 50 staff in Maidenhead.It is not just new economy companies that have benefited. Slough Estates has been developing industrial and more recently technology parks in the area since 1920. Now more than 22% of its non-retail UK rent roll comes from "new generation businesses" such as e-commerce, computers, communications and biotechnology.John Heawood, executive director at Slough Estates, argues that the benefits of the technology boom outweigh the transport and housing issues. "There isn't anywhere in the UK or overseas where you have economic success and you don't have a problem with congestion and so forth. I would rather that, as a challenge to face,   than an economic wasteland. It's the price of success."Highly skilled information technology staff are hard to find, although companies are looking to graduates from local universities and possibly even school leavers, who would start as trainees, to fill the gap. Local unemployment has plummeted from 9% a decade ago to almost zero today.Intel, which employs about 1,800 people in the UK, deals with its labour issues by looking to Europe, India or the US for those staff it cannot recruit locally. The area's productivity rate is an impressive 27% higher than the UK average.Computer group Oracle says it picked Reading as its base because the M4 corridor has become a magnet for technology and computer workers. Nine out of 10 of its staff are graduates.'Logical solution'The huge influx of skilled people into the area has also attracted internet start-ups and small software firms who know their location is crucial in poaching from that labour pool.Outside Reading, Intel is building a $150m European "internet-server farm" offering e-commerce support to corporate customers. The site was chosen over Amsterdam and Frankfurt and will employ 250 people."We wanted a site that was close to the airport; to telecommunications network access points; to the hi-tech industry and that was close to the financial community," said Rod Jackson, director of operations for Intel Europe. "It was a logical solution because of the telecommunications network and internet carriage activity that is established here."Most companies agree that brief commuting to London is also a big advantage when trying to recruit staff from overseas; not everyone is keen to live in smaller towns."I don't think anyone in their right mind would live in Slough," said Peter Allen, finance director at biotechnology group Celltech. His bluntness doesn't dent his affection for the town that has been Celltech's head office for the past 10 years. He says most of the 400 staff live in London or the catchment area of the M4.Allen's words reflect the thoughts of poet laureate John Betjeman who passed through the area just before the second world war. His famous poem invited "friendly bombs" to fall on Slough be cause industry and concrete boxes had made it unfit for humans.Judith Anthony, chief executive of the Thames Valley Economic Partnership, says the success of the M4 corridor is a credit to the government's ability to win foreign investment against cities such as Frankfurt, Amsterdam and Paris. However, if the area is to remain a key part of the UK economy, further public funding is needed to provide improved support facilities. If this doesn't happen the private investment pouring into England's proudly proclaimed "silicon valley" may disappear as quickly as it came.
Tony Blair was given a mild drubbing by the Women's Institute last week. But that is nothing to what ought to happen this week as the RIP (regulation of investigatory powers) bill enters its committee stage in the Lords. People and industry are only just waking up to the enormity of what is proposed and their lordships would do us all a favour if they used their delaying powers to throw this disgraceful bill back to the Commons for a complete rewrite. The bill has only got as far as it has because no one believes that it means what it says. It does. If it becomes law every internet service provider will have to install a black box with a direct link to an MI5 building. That means they can monitor the patterns of all our emails (including who sent them), our visits to chat rooms and every website we click into. All that can be done continuously without a warrant. On production of a warrant, the authorities can force us to surrender any keys, simple or complicated, used to encrypt our emails, so they can read them.Refusal could mean a prison sentence of two years . Drug smugglers and paedophiles will gladly settle for that rather than a much stiffer penalty for being found guilty. If ordinary citizens claim they have forgotten their password they will be presumed guilty by the courts unless they can prove their innocence.It gets worse. If the authorities demand to see an encryption key so they can read your or your company's internet transactions and you tell your boss (or your spouse) then you are liable for imprisonment of five years for a criminal offence. The government says: "Trust us. We have to have these powers but we won't use them in a draconian way." The trouble is, no one trusts government any more. Safeguards for the citizen must be built into the legislation. In yesterday's Observer Tim Berners-Lee, the British inventor of the world wide web, warned that the bill gave government great power to abuse personal and commercial innovation. He said it would have been thrown out "in a second" in the US. This follows complaints by the Institute of Directors which is worried about the commercial data governments could collect without a warrant. This draconian bill will create a big double whammy. Civil liberties will be abused and industry will invest in friendlier places like Ireland instead. Is this the government that pledged to make the UK the best place in the world to do ecommerce?
Microsoft has got no more than it deserves. Its arrogance in refusing to admit any of the serious charges against it has goaded Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson, a conservative Reaganite appointment, into inflicting a more severe penalty than would have happened had the software company shown any serious sign of regret or even of willingness to meet half way. Now, unless an appeal court or the supreme court overturns the judgment, Microsoft will be split into two separate companies. One company will house the Windows operating system and the other, much the more attractive option, when the dominance of personal computers is under attack from the internet and other platforms, will take over the applications. Both will still be monopolies. Windows resides in over 90% of the world's PCs and Excel and Word have an even bigger share of of the spreadsheet and word processing markets.What will happen? No one really knows. It will depend on human behaviour. It is possible that the two new companies will act like Siamese twins or parallel monopolies, each feeding off the other's monopoly position: new versions of the applications could boost demand for a more advanced version of Windows,   and vice versa. If both are run by Microsoft's existing top brass, imbued with its culture, that could easily happen.The more exciting scenario is that, once freed from umbilical linkage to Windows, the applications company would start to sell its products (and lots of new ones) much more aggressively for other operating systems - like the freely available Linux. It could also unleash more of the huge creative and entrepreneurial talent concentrated at the company's campus, where there is more intellectual fire power per square yard than at almost any other big corporation.None of this may ever happen. Microsoft may convince higher courts that the justice department got it all wrong. It has a vested interest in stringing the suit out because it will be able to hang on to its monopoly profits for the duration. It knows it will take ages to engineer the break-up when the supreme court has finally ruled. If Microsoft eventually wins, then the US authorities will be saying that old economy rules do not apply in the new age. That would have very serious consequences. Meanwhile, it is reassuring to know that the world's biggest companies are still subject to the rule of law. Even in the globalised economy.
Joel Klein, celebrating his victory over Microsoft as head of the US government's anti-monopoly division, held out an olive branch yesterday by offering to restart settlement talks with the software group.Speaking the day after Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson had agreed with the government that Microsoft should be broken up, Mr Klein said the government was "prepared to engage in meaningful settlement negotiations" to avoid an appeals process that could take a further two years.He refused to say whether any settlement would be possible without an outright break-up of the company. Instead, he stressed that any settlement would depend on Microsoft's willingness to "live by the law" rather than "continue to abuse its monopoly power".Settlement talks between the two sides broke down in April after Microsoft rejected any suggestion of a structural reorganisation.In an interview with the Guardian yesterday, Brad Smith, general counsel for Microsoft, offered a guarded response to the settlement offer. "We have said constantly that we are always interested in any reasonable basis for this case to be settled."However, he indicated the difficulty of both sides reaching such an agreement when he added that the group would not "compromise" on its belief that consumers were best served by Microsoft integrating new features to its operating system. The group could only do this as a unitary company, he said.Judge Jackson also urged the two sides to start talking yesterday. In an interview with the Washington Post, he said the government and Microsoft should "swallow their own reluctance to compromise and reach a remedy that both sides, if not elated by, nevertheless are willing to extend".Microsoft moved quickly to stay the judgment yesterday pending a full appeal, which is expected within days.Jim Cullinan, a company spokesman, said Microsoft would appeal against the "entire order". Executives have said they are confident that the 25-year-old company would not be broken up.Steve Ballmer, the company's president, said that the split-up order was unjust.In his final judgment on the case, Judge Jackson called Microsoft untrustworthy. He said Microsoft might have avoided such a "radical" remedy as a break-up "had mediation been successful and terminated in a consent decree". His scathing indictment of the company suggested that it had no respect for the law, having failed to accept it had done anything wrong even after an earlier ruling that it had broken US anti-monopoly laws.Mr Klein said it was telling that Microsoft had never set up an anti-monopoly compliance group after signing an earlier consent decree.Analysts said it was too early to tell whether there would be a settlement. The justice department has filed for an appeal to go straight to the supreme court. If the court decides to accept the case, it could by settled next year.
After its turnover rose by 9,307% in three years Data Discoveries, an Edinburgh-based software firm, has been named as Britain's fastest growing technology company in a survey by Deloitte &amp; Touche.But the company, which writes software for companies to access accurate marketing data on customers, refused to celebrate attaining the impressive title.Founder Marcus Brook insisted the company cannot afford to become complacent, even if it does expect to double turnover every year for the next three years."The challenge is really keeping this level of growth," he said yesterday."Our focus is software. We are not a dot.com that's very good at spending investors cash and not making profits."Data Discoveries, which employs 19 staff and started in 1995, expects to report turnover of &#163;1.4m this year and pre-tax profits of &#163;400,000. Clients include Al liance &amp; Leicester, Mercedes Benz and Standard Life."The whole point of our software is to get some classic marketing into e-commerce    and call centres. It delivers knowledge of what are customers' needs and wants. This is not being done on the web where a lot of marketing is to   people who don't want your product."The survey listed Eurocall, a reseller of telecoms services on other companies' networks, as the second fastest growing company by turnover, with its revenue jumping 9,170%.Eidos, the Lara Croft computer games maker, saw its revenues leap 4,528%.Deloitte &amp; Touche partner William Touche said the growth statistics flew in the face of investor criticism lobbed at some technology firms whose stock market valuations have collapsed."Although technology shares have slumped from their early year highs, the survey reveals a good level of business optimism and there are many good quality companies considering listing," he said. "Conditions are likely to improve further as a result of the increase taper relief on capital gains tax of business assets announced in this year's budget."Access to skilled staff, rising interest rates, concern on wage inflation, and sales and marketing strategies remained the key issues affect ing the industry, according to the survey of 2,000 technology companies across the country.It found the companies were offering high reward schemes and equity options to deal with the problem of staff retention.Mr Brook said his staff owned 20% of Data Discoveries, with an option to buy out investors Arch Angel Investment Group over time.Data Discoveries was considering two acquisitions and looking to sell its product into Europe and the US.However, only a third of the companies surveyed saw mergers or acquisitions as the desired expansion strategy. Most preferred organic growth and considered the US and UK provide the best opportunities.A quarter of companies expected to be acquired as the environment for raising capital became favourable again for technology companies."Longstanding shortage of funding and poor tax incentives are being reversed," Mr Touche said. "The environment for technology entrepreneurs in this country is improving significantly."
You can hardly take a train or visit your favourite website these days without tender inquiries into your health from intrusive adverts. Embarrassing itch? Sexual impotence? Are you a healthy eater? There is a rash of new British health sites blowing a substantial wad of venture capitalists' cash on their push for the online medical market.Meanwhile, many of their US counterparts are in critical condition. Can anxious consumers really hope to find good health advice online?If health portals were a disease they would have been declared an epidemic in the UK by now. Hot on the heels ofHealth In Focusand the launch of the internet arm ofNHS Directlast December cameSurgery DoorandNetDoctor, offering the latest health news, medical advice, self-testing questionnaires, email services and online chats with doctors. Doctors can switch on the Medical Channel, a new digital television channel for health professionals, which buys its news from Health-Media.Net, another flourishing online health information provider.These new ventures have been encouraged by the excellent prognosis for the online   health industry - worth $10bn by 2004, says Jupiter Communications. Forrester Research's calculations are closer to $37bn, suggesting that a money-spinning 8% of all retail health sales will have moved online by 2004.Yet the latest news from the US sounds less lucrative. Despite a million registered users and quarterly revenue of more than $5m,Drkoop.com, a health portal founded by a former US surgeon general C Everett Koop, has funds for only another four months.Healthshop.com recently laid off workers and halted sales, despite having more than 1.1million unique users each month and receiving $25m last autumn.Unable to subsist on advertising alone, these sites' wait for the predicted boom in medicinal e-commerce may be a long one. The internet appears an ideal medium for dispensing medical advice (and pills): interactive and, crucially, for those embar rassing itches, anonymous. But more than half 1,600 consumers surveyed by Jupiter Communications prefer the convenience of the high street when buying drugs.More importantly, they are likely to trust their chemist more than the internet, which is renowned for its virulent rumours and scare stories. An investigation by American gastroenterologists concluded that one in 10 sites in the field contained treatment information that was "unproven or outright quackery".In the UK, an investigation by the Consumers Association this week found online chemists only too willing to dole out drugs without thoroughly checking patients' medical histories. Five UK prescription drug sites supplied a slimming drug to a researcher posing as someone whose medical history made it an inappropriate treatment.Another site supplied Viagra to a researcher, when a doctor would have looked at his record of nitrate therapy for heart trouble and declared the drug too risky. The Health Which? report also criticised sites for not naming doctors or showing their qualifications.The US online health industry fell sick by failing to involve medical professionals, says Tim Nater, executive   director of Health on the Net Foundation (Hon), a not-for-profit web watchdog based in Geneva. "In the States, e-health has been built up largely in the absence of doctors and nurses," he says. "A lot of companies are rising to the wrong challenge. They are in it for the money and not for the public service."A Hon study found lack of time to be the biggest obstacle to doctors and nurses getting involved in e-health. With a couple of days a week in his Stroud surgery and media work for BBC1, Radio 2, the Sunday Mirror and Women's   Realm, it is surprising Dr Mark Porter has any time to devote to Surgery Door, the UK health portal of which he is medical editor.Porter's consumer friendly face is the lynchpin of Surgery Door's appeal for the trust of the British consumer. "His career would be dead overnight if we overstepped the line between ethical health and commercialism," says managing director Paul Blackburn.UK health sites could learn from American mistakes. Dr Koop's professional standing was tarnished when his website got its knuckles rapped   for failing to label clearly advertising content. US sites were also hit by a recent privacy scare, after the California HealthCare Foundation discovered that many, including Drkoop, OnHealth and WebMD, were sharing information about their users with third parties. This could be used to compile medical 		profiles of those who turned to the net precisely because of its supposed anonymity.Surgery Door "doesn't collect any information about users", says Blackburn. Porter is equally anxious to ensure that commercial imperatives   do not cloud its health information. "We go great lengths to show who we are involved with and why we are pukka," says Porter. "Good sites provide information and services for free. Alongside that we'll run links, sponsorship and advertising, but that should not interfere with any of the content, exactly the same as with a newspaper."Nater hopes "there is no way the American e-health model is going to be picked up and used in Europe". But the NHS's online offering has, so far, disappointed doctors. Medical advice and content is   thin and earlier this month it was still promoting an event held on March 20.Online health provision should not go too far, suggests Porter, dismissing the possibility of online consultations: "I don't know a decent doctor who reckons he or she could do a proper job during an online consultation. To pretend you can and charge money for it is wrong."Nevertheless, the internet's potential to improve health services is "unlimited", he believes. For example, patients could book their own appointments online or use a Wap phone to find out where their nearest hospital is and who sells aspirin at 1am.In the meantime, while the public is faced with fairly ordinary online health services which Porter admits "are still finding their feet" in the UK, medical professionals can access information of cast-iron integrity on sites such as US-based Medline and Health-Media.Net. Alongside the question of how online health services can benefit those without internet access, the success of exclusive	 professional sites suggests the web may not be the hoped-for panacea for reducing the inequalities in public health.However, health professionals say there has to be   some separation between what they and the public can get on the net. Gill Shearer, editor-in-chief of subscriber-based Health-Media Net, says they must offer a private platform for doctors. "We can't have consumers entering &#91;online&#93; discussions they would be confused and misled by. There are patient	 confidentiality issues as well," she says. Porter agrees, pointing out that professional sites also have to be restricted because many contain adverts which would break the strict UK rules for advertising medicines direct to the public.But Nater believes global rules are really needed to shape up the internet. Four years ago, Hon "recognised the need for a basic ethical standard"; 3,000 sites now subscribe to its code in 36 different countries. Three similar ethics codes have been published in the US this year and Nater fears this proliferation risks confusing users."We should work for a single global code," says Nater, although he hopes for more. Ethical standards are all very well, but "what is much more important is compliance and enforcement".Until we have this, punters seeking good health online had best beware.Health warnings:Dos and don'tsDolook for the Health on the Net Foundation (Hon) guarantee on the website. All reputable UK sites have got it or are applying for it.Doconsult the site's privacy policy - it could be collecting information about you.Docheck the date of publication of health advice. Medical information which is several years old could be out of date.   Reliable websites should date their material.Don'tbuy drugs from websites based abroad. Foreign sites may prescribe drugs not tested or licensed in the UK.Don'trisk paying for an online consultation.Rememberthat online tests, questionnaires and health advice are no substitute for a face to face diagnosis by a proper doctor.Useful linksHealth on the Netwww.hon.chNHS Directwww.nhsdirect.nhs.ukThe Surgery Doorwww.surgerydoor.co.ukDrKoopwww.drkoop.comNetdoctorwww.netdoctor.co.ukHealth Media Netwww.health-media.neThe British Medical Journalwww.bmj.com
Broken WindowsThe hammer has dropped on Microsoft what once was unthinkable is now a court order.Critics, including this page, will continue to question this approach. Jackson's order seems excessive and flawed in many specifics.In Redmond, the mood must be a blend of shock and anger, and a feeling that all this is undeserved. Microsoft has brought tremendous benefits to the computing industry and to the public. Locally, it has enriched the economy and attracted a host of people whose energy, ideas and philanthropy have set new standards.Microsoft has evolved into an icon of Seattle's success, a stop for the tour busesMicrosoft may yet win on appeal, but this is a huge moment.The Seattle TimesStern Justice for MicrosoftJudge Thomas Penfield Jackson's order to split Microsoft into two independent companiesis the proper remedy for repeated violations of the antitrust laws.A less drastic remedy would prove ineffectual or horribly intrusive.The uncertainty over Microsoft's future is sure to complicate business judgments in the fast-changing world of high-tech industry, the company's monopolistic practices have been egregious, and the nation deserves a speedy resolution of this struggle by the highest court in the land. There is no need to drag it out with an intervening appellate review.Though the content of Judge Jackson's ruling was unsurprising, the tone was startlingly stern. Microsoft, he says, has been "not credible," "untrustworthy," "disingenuous."Judge Jackson sided completely with the government in part because he mistrusts the company. Yesterday Microsoft reaped the well-deserved consequences.The New York TimesMicrosoft, R.I.P.Last Will and Testament Of Microsoft CorporationI, Microsoft Corp., being of relatively sound mind and very sound financial body hereby declare that this is my last will and testament.  Whereas I have acquired virtually all of my target market and whereas the Department of Justice has deemed that a bad thing, I sense that the end is near.I revoke all previous wills and codicils although I am sure you won't find any since I always thought I'd live forever.Although I never wanted children, it appears that I may have two issues. I therefore appoint Bill Gates and Paul Allen as guardians of my two baby Microsofts.I bequeath my operating system and all versions of Windows to Baby Bill. I bequeath all other product lines to Baby Paul including, but not limited to, Explorer, Word and Excel.As my final wish, I direct that my incorporating documents be buried with my remains near my home in Redmond, Wash. I would like a simple grave marker with the following inscription:Microsoft Corporation (1981-2000)"You have performed an illegal operation.Abort, restart or retry?At least I gave users an option."The Washington PostSplit Would Be Boon for IndustryJudge Thomas Penfield Jackson's ruling that Microsoft Corp. must be split up is not only good for the future of technology and the U.S. economy. It could be the best medicine for Microsoft too.Why? Because splitting Microsoft could energize parts of today's company and let talented people range widely to develop applications for office and home software rather than constantly trying to control the marketplace through Microsoft's Windows operating system.Just as we all should learn from history how antitrust actions in the past have benefited U.S. industry and the companies affected, so Gates should take lessons for himself and his company.The Los Angeles Times
Microsoft will seek court action to delay the judge's order to break up the company, chief executive Steve Ballmer said in Rotterdam today.Keeping up Microsoft's defiant front, Mr Ballmer called yesterday's ruling by Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson an "unjustified and unwarranted intrusion into the market" that would harm consumers. He said breaking up Microsoft in two would mean higher prices, less choice and less user-friendly products.Analysts said Microsoft has decided to fight on despite a series of legal defeats in the hope that George W Bush will win the presidential election in November. The Republican presidential candidate is considered to be more friendly towards Microsoft than vice-president Al Gore, his Democratic rival.In his landmark decision yesterday, judge Jackson gave the company four months to come up with a detailed blueprint for a breakup into two separate companies. One would own the Windows operating system and the other would handle applications such as its Word programme and internet browsers.Judge Jackson told the Washington Post today he would still prefer to see a settlement, but he had little choice other than to accept the proposal of the US justice department and the 17 states in the antitrust case because he wanted to avoid a "conduct-restraining order that required an onerous regulatory scheme"."I'd much prefer to have market forces accomplish as much of the remedy as could be done," he said. "I've always thought the best remedy was the one the parties could have negotiated between themselves." The judge said that rather than see a breakup imposed, the lawsuit could be settled out of court - even now. He urged both sides to "swallow their own reluctance to compromise and reach a remedy that both sides, if not elated by, nevertheless are willing to extend."Judge Jackson's ruling was a devastating judgment on Microsoft's behaviour, which he called "untrustworthy". He said: "A structural remedy has become imperative: Microsoft as it is organised and led is unwilling to accept the notion that it broke the law or accede to an order amending its conduct."Microsoft could drag out the appeal process for years as the case winds its way to the supreme court, allowing time for the possible election of Republican George W Bush as US president, who, Microsoft hopes, will put pressure on the justice department to drop its case. Mindful of Microsoft's delaying tactics, the department of justice is expected to ask for the case to go straight to the supreme court.Bill Gates, Microsoft's founder, yesterday suggested that the judge had failed to understand the dynamics of the industry.
The decision to break up Microsoft into two parts - one company owning the Windows operating system and the other the software applications and browser - is good for the computer industry and, quite likely, for Microsoft itself in the long run. But it won't have any immediate impact on the real world. This is because of the company's decision to appeal not only against the  breakup decision but also against the restraints on its behaviour that the judge imposed while the substantive issue was being finally resolved.And then? The success of a split will critically depend on human behaviour. If it merely produces two Siamese twins, or parallel monopolies, each instinctively - one might almost say genetically - knowing what the other will do then the monopoly situation could worsen.In the short run Microsoft's operating system will still reside on well over 90% of the world's personal computers and software packages such as the Excel spreadsheet and Word word processor will still have a similar market share. The system and the software will create demand for each other's products. Being two corporate units rather than one might tempt them to raise their prices faster (or reduce them less fast) than if they remained one integrated whole with the justice department breathing down its neck.If Bill Gates decided to run the applications company, it is difficult to imagine him trying to undermine the Windows operating system he built up and protected for so long by trying aggressively to sell products to other emerging platforms such as the free alternative, Linux. And will the two companies still be based on the same campus at Redmond with the same or adjacent canteens?Yet, properly handled, this judgment could unleash submerged creative forces among the thousands of highly skilled Microsoft employees. As Walter Mossberg of the Wall Street Journal has pointed out, some of Microsoft's best products, such as Internet Explorer and Money, have emerged when the company has faced real competitive pressures.The breakup of Microsoft would open countless new opportunities for software developers all over the world. At the moment no venture capitalist is going fund startups trying to sell rival spreadsheets, word processors or browsers against the might of Microsoft's integrated monopoly. New products in these areas have very little chance against the  integrated packages that Microsoft offers locked into its own operating system.What beggars belief is Microsoft's almost total inability to see, let alone admit, that it has done anything wrong despite the devastating catalogue of uncompetitive practices that the department of justice has unearthed.Microsoft's self-interest dictates that it will oppose this judgment. The longer it delays the start of the split, the longer it will take to finish it. And even when the split is completed it will be years before effective competition can undermine the armlock that both new companies will have on their customers.  It will be a major decision for  companies to abandon the Windows system they are locked into. During this time, the industry Microsoft has dominated for so long will be shifting its field of battle to the internet, which Microsoft hopes will strengthen its argument that the justice department does not understand the dynamics of the industry.Above all, Microsoft has reason to stall because the longer it does the longer it hangs on to its monopoly profits. Remember, the bottom line of all this is that Microsoft has been earning far higher profits than it should have been in virtue of its monopoly position. Should some of them not be handed back so they do not continue to give the two companies an advantageous war chest?If the judge started to threaten huge backdated fines based on the scale of its monopoly profits Microsoft might have a vested interest in taking the judgment of the court more seriously.
Catching KakwormI have taken the view that email-borne viruses are only a danger if one intentionally opens an attachment, and I proceed only after seeing who it is from and its title in the preview pane of Outlook Express.Recently I have received emails from Microsoft, eFax.com and others which initiate an internet connection to their website by automatically starting a dial-up networking connection.I understand the reason for this, but I realise that someone with a malicious intent could do considerable damage using this type of embedded code. How can I disable it?John MathiasLondonj.mathias@ntlworld.comJack Schofield:The quick answer is to go to Internet Explorer's Tools menu, pick Internet Options, go to the Connections tab and click to select "Never dial a connection". However, this does not remove the potential problems with web-style mail, coded in HTML, which can run scripts and can carry viruses such as VBS/Bubbleboy and VBS/Kakworm.Merely reading a message infected with Kakworm allows it to put a file called KAK.HTA into Windows' Start-up folder. The next time Windows is started, it creates a file called C:\WINDOWS\ KAK.HTM which changes the Microsoft Outlook Express registry settings to add the virus to your outgoing email as a signature.The last of these fortnightly columns explained how to disable the Windows Scripting Host program that runs Visual Basic Scripts (VBS).It's also possible to disable scripting in Internet Explorer. In IE5, go to the Tools| Internet Options|Security tab (remember, Outlook Express is part of the Internet Explorer suite) and raise the default security level or click Custom Level and do it manually.However, Bubbleboy and Kakworm actually exploit one   of Microsoft's mistakes, which was to mark two small files (scriptlet.typelib and Eyedog) as being "safe for scripting" when they aren't. Microsoft published a patch to fix this on August 31: seewww.microsoft.com/technet/security/bulletin/fq99-032.aspUsers of IE4 and IE5 for Windows 95/98 should have downloaded the fix but we didn't. Now Kakworm is becoming widespread, it's a good idea.Brought to accountMy wife and I have separate ISP/email accounts, and I am unable to set Outlook Express so that I can just see my emails when I log in and she can see only hers when she logs in. In fact, at the moment only I can send emails and I can see her emails in my intray. She thinks its a conspiracy and I am unable to provide a valid answer. Help!Keith ShapleyKeith.Shapley@tesco.netJS:With Outlook Express 4, you have to "enable user profiles" so that you each log on to and log off from Windows before running the program. (For this to work, you also have to enable user profiles before you install OE4 in Windows 95/98, but that's a longer story.)Go to the Control Panel, double-click Passwords, and select the User Profiles tab. Click: "Users can customize their preferences and desktop settings. Windows switches to your personal settings whenever you log in."Outlook Express 5 is much better because it introduces the concept of Identities. Simply pull down the File menu, point to Identities, and click Add New Identity. Creating a new identity automatically creates a new mail folder.The outlook for MacsI've succeeded in getting online on a Mac which is networked to two PCs using Windows 98SE's Internet Connection Sharing. The problem is, I'd like to use Outlook Express on the Mac, but I'm running OS 7.6 and the latest version of Outlook Express (5.02) only runs on 8.1 or later.Could you tell me where I might be able to download an earlier version of Outlook Express that will run on OS 7.6?Donald Gunndonald@culloden5.freeserve.co.ukJS:Outlook Explorer 4.5 runs on PowerPC-based Macs with Mac OS 7.5.3 or above (7.5.5 or above is recommended). You can download it fromwww.microsoft.com/msdownload/iebuild/ie45_mac/en/ie45_mac.htm
Apple's decision to delay the release of MacOS X - the long-awaited successor to the Mac's venerable system
    software - disappointed many Mac users, but came as no surprise. The story of Apple's attempt to create a brand new,
    up-to-date operating system has had such a soap opera quality that as the final episode nears, a last-minute plot
    twist seemed inevitable.You almost expect the chief executive officer Steve Jobs to lean out of the shower and tell us all it was just a bad
    dream, Sue-Ellen.And to Mac users, MacOS X - it's a roman numeral, not a letter - is something of a dream. It promises Mac owners the
    kind of crash-free computing they've hoped to get from their system software but have never had. And it comes with a
    new graphical user interface, Aqua, that Apple claims will put the Mac as far ahead of Windows as it was back before
    Microsoft released Windows 95.Sounds too good to be true? It's beginning to feel that way too. Last January, at the bi-annual gathering of Mac fans,
    MacWorld Expo San Francisco, Jobs unveiled MacOS X and promised to ship it, shrinkwrapped "in the summer" and
    bundle it with all shipping Macs early 2001.But at last month's Worldwide Developers' Conference (WWDC), we learned the new operating system, built pretty
    much fresh from the ground up, would arrive early next year, with the summer's release being relegated to a public
    test release of the as yet unfinished software - a "beta" version. 
    Apple's spin doctors immediately attempted to persuade software authors at the conference and Mac users reading
    reports on the internet that the six-month slip was nothing of the kind. "We're delivering the same software at the
    same time, but with different names," was how Phil Schiller, the company's VP for product marketing, put it. Which
    begs the question: how come you were previously willing to ask users to pay for unfinished software, but you're not
    now?Now the rotational paramedics go quiet - surprise, surprise. May's six-month setback is just the latest in a very long
    line of broken promises. Understandably broken, to be fair, since the creation of an operating system - the code that
    governs how a computer looks, feels and behaves - is no simple task. 
    Even the mighty Microsoft regularly put back the release of what became Windows 2000 but started out as Windows
    NT version 5. And Linux has taken the best part of nine years and thousands of net-connected collaborators to reach
    the stage where it disturbs Bill Gates's sleep.In comparison, the genesis of Apple's next-generation operating system doesn't seem too extraordinary. But then
    we're not talking about the gestation of a single product. Unlike Linux and Windows 2000, MacOS X is the latest in a
    line of would-be successors to the classic MacOS, stretching right back to a 1987 research project called Pink.Pink ended up being spun out of the company as part of Apple's bizarre liaison with IBM in 1990, sent out into the
    world as Taligent, only to col lapse, product unshipped, in 1995. The irony: Pink/Taligent was an attempt to build an
    object-oriented OS - one made of small, highly efficient and re-useable chunks of soft ware code - something that
    Jobs, by then out of Apple, was hard a work on at his new company, NeXT. 
    After Pink, Apple engineers in 1993 initiated project Raptor, the company's second attempt to build MacOS: The Next
    Generation. Raptor pretty much failed too, being finally rolled the following year into try three, Copland.This time
    Apple bosses figured they had the right strategy: create a brand new Mac operating system and imbue it with the
    features that would beat Microsoft's MacOS killer project, codenamed Chicago.Copland was originally codenamed Capone, after the mobster who brought the city of Chicago to its knees. But the
    release of Chicago (the OS) in 1995 as Windows 95, while Capone was still in Apple's labs, forced a hasty name
    change. It also brought a wake-up call to the Mac maker, which suddenly released it wasn't the main man any longer. 
    In early 1996, Apple officially announced Copland and promised to ship it around the middle of the year.By then
    Apple's management was imploding, and Gil Amelio, brought in to rescue the company, had seen that Copland would not
    only be incompatible with existing Mac software, but wouldn't provide users' applications with any of the new, more
    powerful OS benefits. He canned the project and decided to buy in its replacement. Eventually, Apple bought NeXT,
    Steve Jobs' company, you'll recall, just before Christmas for $400m.The following month Apple announced Copland's replacement, Rhapsody (next-gen operating system number four), and
    pledged to ship it mid to late 1998. 
    Unlike Copland, Rhapsody would provide that all-important backwards compatibility and bring in a powerful
    object-oriented approach to application creation, plus the two key features: memory protection, which allows an
    application to die without bringing the entire system down (as anyone who's experienced an Unexpected Type 1 Error
    will appreciate), and pre-emptive multi-tasking: the ability to run applications simultaneously and give each a full
    share of the host computer's hardware resources.Both sound highly abstruse but are essential to creating highly stable systems that don't fall over every time
    QuarkXPress goes off in a huff. And that was central to Apple's Rhapsody strategy: to provide its professional users,
    and those who develop software for them, with a solid operating system that could compete with Microsoft.For once, Apple was able to ship Rhapsody broadly on time. As 1998 rolled round, the company released MacOS X
    Server. Of course, in "Operating System Street", nothing is quite that simple, and Apple had already been forced to
    rethink Rhapsody/MacOS X by its major developers, led by Adobe, the creator of PhotoShop, who didn't want to rewrite
    all their popular applications solely to take advantage of the new OS features.So while Apple was spinning MacOS X Server as a kind of preview to much-promised next-generation OS, it was
    reworking MacOS X proper to allow existing Mac applications to use memory protection and pre-emptive
    multi-tasking, using a technology called Carbon. 
    Carbon is essentially a re-write of the classic MacOS software toolbox that fits it into the new OS's modern
    framework, allowing modified apps to operate as if they had been designed for MacOS X.Alongside Carbon sits Classic, formerly known as Blue Box, the MacOS 9 emulation module, and Cocoa, the
    object-oriented application framework derived from NeXT's bought-in OS and the basis for next-generation
    applications. All provide three ways of to run applications on a MacOS X-based Macintosh, maximising the system
    software's backwards compatibility and making the most of its new features. 
    Add the new OS's powerful Adobe Acrobat-based 2D graphics system and the industry standard OpenGL 3D graphics
    technology, advanced networking and internet access, and Apple's well-established QuickTime multimedia technology,
    and MacOS X is shaping up to be a very powerful operating system indeed, one that, unlike the classic MacOS, can
    compete with Windows and Linux.For all Steve Jobs's frequent comments that Apple has "lost the OS war", this is really what MacOS X is about. That
    statement is really about how Apple isn't about to become a software company the way Microsoft is - at least until
    the US Department of Justice breaks it apart - but a system business. The Macintosh is as much a hardware platform
    as an operating system, and Apple wants the two to fit snugly together. How else is it going to sell systems that are
    more expensive than their Wintel equivalents?T he snag here is that MacOS X needs to fit two markets: the professional buyer and the new, iMac-hungry consumer.
    Classic MacOS works well in this joint role, providing consumers with a user-friendly user interface and the pros
    with a stack of well-established applications. Unfortunately, MacOS X, while providing the stability professional
    users crave, hasn't yet proved itself on the applications front.Apple representatives mention the 200-odd developers who are creating MacOS X applications - almost all of them
    simple Carbonisations of existing programs - but are unable to say when we'll see any but a handful of them. 
    That no doubt explains the latest delay. "We'll be shipping a final &#91;Mac OS X&#93; 1.0 with pre-loading options in January,"
    said Jobs at WWDC, a far cry from his MacWorld statement: "Mac OS X will go on sale as a shrink-wrapped software
    product this summer, and will be pre-loaded as the standard operating system on all Macintosh computers beginning
    in early 2001."And "there is certainly more work to finish on the details of &#91;Mac OS X&#93;. There is some fine-tuning, but the majority
    of the product is in place", says Phil Schiller. 
    Apple probably wants to give itself more time to make MacOS X's decidedly NeXT-like user interface, Aqua, appear
    more like the classic Mac. Again, it's a sign of the OS's schizophrenia: a cute, gizmo-filled front-end to tease the
    consumers, but one that does little for Apple's professional hardcore. If the reactions of pro users I spoke to at
    MacWorld are anything to go by, they don't care for all Aqua's UI flim-flam. 
    Can MacOS X become the genuine successor to the classic MacOS, a "one size fits all" operating system for pros and
    consumers alike? Until we get to see the public beta, with its complete feature set, it's difficult to say.Certainly,
    Microsoft's attempts to merge Windows 2000 and Windows 98 into a single, core OS haven't gone according to plan,
    and aren't expected to deliver until after the successor to 98, Windows Millennium, is released. 
    Even Apple seems concerned - hence the OS's relegation to "optional" status. 
    But Apple's need to get its OS strategy right is greater than Microsoft's and that could ensure MacOS X has the
    cross-community appeal it needs. The classic Mac OS is so far behind the times developers are already turning away
    from it - even the upcoming next-gen Amiga OS looks more advanced. And after so many false starts - Pink, Raptor,
    Copland and Rhapsody - Apple needs to prove it can do the business. And if that takes a six-month set-back, so be it.&#149;    Tony Smith is managing editor ofThe Register, the IT newssite with attitude&#149; For more on Mac OS X see:www.apple.com/macosx
The tidy port of Largs, on the Firth of Clyde, is best known as the site of a bloody battle in 1263, when the Scots scored a crucial victory against Viking invaders.Local wits suggest that a new invasion is under way, this time of call centre staff working at IBM's site just up the coast in Greenock.IBM has brought nearly 600 foreign staff to Scotland under a scheme to centralise telephone orders and technical support for customers around the world.Several large rooms in IBM's sprawling complex are full of desks with little national flags over them. Qatari, Portuguese, Swedish and Zimbabwean telephonists sit side by side, taking orders and offering advice to their customers back home. The mixture of accents and languages makes the place sound like a miniature United Nations.Altogether, Greenock serves customers in 70 countries, with staff speaking 20 languages.Site director Charles Morrison says: "Traditionally, all this was done within individual countries but much of it has been centralised here. We obviously can't get the number of people we want speaking native languages from here in Scotland, so we recruit them from overseas."Knock-on effectsOne of the consequences is that clusters of same-nationality staff have set up home in some areas - such as the Scandinavians in Largs. There has also been a knock-on effect for local education - IBM is sponsoring special certificates in schools to try to encourage better development of language skills.IBM's call centre is typical of a trend away from large-scale manufacturing   of electronic commodities towards specialised activities, which are adding more value.By putting all its staff together, IBM can ensure that they all learn from each other - particularly when answering customers' problems. It is also cheaper for IBM to run one large call centre than lots of small ones around the world.An rising number of inquiries are arriving by email but Mr Morrison says that trend has its limits: "Most members of the public still like to talk to someone."Looking backWhen IBM began production at Greenock in 1953, manufacturing was mostly of typewriters, printers and other basic office equipment. But over the years, as soon as products have become "volume" goods which can be cheaply made through automated processes, production has shifted overseas to countries with cheaper workforces.In 1981, IBM started making personal computers in Greenock but much of the basic hardware is now assembled at sites in developing countries. The group's Scottish workforce has moved on to more specialised computers - such as large-scale servers for businesses or ThinkPad laptops.Mr Morrison says the other main activity is to provide bespoke computers tailored to the individual needs of big customers. IBM also provides e-commerce consultancy - the company likes to consider itself "the world's biggest dot.com".Greenock has seen a number of other new entrants to snap up some of the workforce laid off by its declining docks in recent years. Among the other big employers are One2One and Royal Bank of Scotland, which have call centres in the town.
Kymata, a specialist in optoelectronic circuits, is one of the most successful of a clutch of fast growing start-ups in central Scotland. A year ago, the business had 15 employees; now the number tops 200.The company is based in a sparkling new building on a Livingston industrial estate, housing offices and laboratory space. It has just bought the building next door, which was vacated when its "old economy" tenant - a company making food processing equipment - went into liquidation.Kymata makes circuits and components used to carry voice and data messages. Its products use light rather than electrical signals for greater speed and capacity.Chief executive Brendan Hyland says: "In designing these devices we're pushing the boundaries of physics. We've got the capacity to be one of the largest production companies around in our field."British Telecom reckons the business has potential - it has   a 5% stake. The company's customers are telecoms companies around the globe.Kymata (the name is the Greek for "waves") was a spin-out from Southampton University in 1998. However, much of the original technology has been dropped in   favour of more interesting intellectual property from Glasgow University.Mr Hyland believes optoelectronics could be crucial to the success of Silicon Glen. He says: "If you try to go into things like software, you can always get better and cheaper   engineers in Bangalore. We need process skills - we're pulling together a highly skilled team."He says those skills are readily available in Scotland, given the proximity to universities in Edinburgh and Glasgow. "The region's got an extremely high quality of life, without the traffic of the south-east. I must admit, traffic really put me off when I lived in Cambridge for a few years."It takes me 25 minutes to drive 20 miles to work, from the south of Edinburgh. You try doing that in the south-east."Mr Hyland believes there is a tendency to exaggerate the importance of the net in the growth of the hi-tech sector. "The net is not the only driver of growth." For Kymata, the "new economy" is more about changes in telecoms - particularly the public's keenness to embrace mobile phones.The need for instant mobility of information has stimulated demand for all sorts of new communication technology. "The skill of the opto-industry has not yet dawned on the general population," Mr Hyland says. "This is the electronics of a new generation."
These mice are the cat's whiskersChuChu Rocket!Sega Dreamcast Free  Sonic Team/Sega 	****The team behind Sonic the Hedgehog has produced one of the most compulsive multi-player puzzle games yet to hit the net.The basic game is very simple, and is played on a checked board. You start with one or more chuchus (cartoon space mice), and your job is to direct them to their rocket, so they can blast off for home. Unfortunately the board may also contain any number of kapukapus (space cats), walls, black holes and other hazards. By placing arrows on the board, however, you can direct all the chuchus to their   rocket before the kapukapus can get to them.In single-player mode, this usually isn't very challenging, especially given the limited number of squares where arrows can logically be placed. Anyone who managed to get through Lemmings, a vastly superior British puzzle game, will knock these off in very short order.Where ChuChu Rocket! really comes into its own is as a Bomberman-style multiplayer game, where up to three out of four players can be played by the computer. In multi-player modes, you can not only try to rescue your own mice but steal your opponents' mice as well.Further, you must also find time to direct cats away from your spaceship, preferably into rival spaceships - this is a key technique for reducing the leader's score. The action quickly becomes fast and furious.The easy learning curve    and challenging action should make ChuChu Rocket! a good party game, while the simplistic graphics, catchy background tune and silly scenario should mean that losing isn't taken too much to heart. And if you haven't got anyone to play, ChuChu Rocket! lets you play   online. In fact, Dreamcast owners have to go online to order a copy, which will be sent, free, to those who register on Sega's Dreamarena website. ChuChu Rocket! will also be bundled with Dreamcast consoles sold after June 9.  (JS)Bland battle of the gene geniesEvolvaPC	&#163;39.99 Computer Artworks/ Virgin Interactive	***Here's a candidate for the unfortunate-name hall of fame, right up there with Pschitt lemonade. Schoolboy sniggers aside, Evolva (hee, hee) is an action strategy title with a double-helix twist. Instead of finding better weapons and learning abilities, you evolve them, by absorbing the genes of creatures you have killed.You can choose how your warriors evolve: more speed, or more strength in melee combat? Higher jumps, or a bit more oomph into the spike gun? This makes less difference to the gameplay than you'd think, but it is quite satisfying watching your trooper sprout a flamethrower attachment after taking out his first fire parasite.Using a team of four "genohunters", your mission is to purge a planet of parasitic visitors. Although you can directly control only one genohunter at a time, the others will follow your example, or, if you wish, your commands.At least, they're supposed to. They may be physically adaptable, but when it comes to smart, these GM warriors have the DNA of a headless   chicken crossed with a lemon. Ergo: player-controlled warrior jumps on to a rock; two of the remaining three do likewise, and the fourth embarks on a pacifist rampage, alerting every baddie on the level. Player-controlled warrior runs round a corner into an ambush; warriors two through four decide this is a good time to start filing their nails.The missions are varied and sometimes original - make a bomb to blow up an enemy structure, herd the local fauna into a natural "pen" and protect them from the parasitic invaders - and the levels impressively large. The downside is that it's all too easy to get lost.Given the amount of information being processed, the graphics run very smoothly, although the sky is reminiscent of your typical British May and the colours are all a bit matt.Matt is quite a good description of the game as a whole. A setup as alien as this needs some detailed scene-setting, which it just doesn't get. The intro is abrupt, the game literature economical, and your reward for completing a level is a page of stats followed by new orders.This, along with the faceless hunters, makes it very hard to engage with the action in an emotional, or even intellectual way.The only reminder of human involvement in the game is the kicking soundtrack, which is the main reason why Evolva somehow manages to be enjoyable.  (AB)Hard road for virtual rally driversColin McRae Rally 2Sony PlayStation &#163;29.99 Codemasters ****If you thought passing your driving test was a challenge, just wait till you get a load of this. Colin McRae Rally 2 - the sequel to the well received original - is one of the toughest console driving experiences known to man.Not content with offering some treacherous and devious courses, the game even requires you to occasionally take your finger off the accelerator.Whilst this heresy would be unforgivable to Ridge Racer fans it does mean the game is a rewarding experience.As before, you get to race around the top global rally spots, though this time the graphics are even better.A particular highlight is the realistically depicted damage inflicted on your car.Steer too close to a tree or verge and it's likely that yourbumper and body will start messy divorce proceedings.But it's not just crumbling bodywork, or the weather based engine tinkering, that makes Colin McRae's such an arduous undertaking.No, you can blame the handling for that. As brutally realistic as is possible on the PlayStation, the way the cars steer and grip the road is a pleasure when mastered but a pig to learn.Fortunately those drivers with less patience, or who are simply looking for a quick thrill, can indulge in the arcade mode, complete with looping, and more forgiving, tracks. But really, if you are on the hunt for a short-term speed session then you're looking at the wrong game.However, if steep learning curves, vocal co-drivers and souped-up road cars are your thing then you can finally stop watching Grandstand and get behind the wheel yourself.Authentic, yet ludicrously enjoyable, Colin McRae 2 is the thinking man's driving game.  (GH)
Dreamcast price cutsBritish sales of Sega's Dreamcast games console boomed over the recent holiday, according to trade reports, after retailers slashed the price by &#163;50 to &#163;149 or less - Dixons was advertising them   at &#163;144.95. The question now is whether Sega will attempt to get the price back up. Sega is selling Dreamcasts for much less - $149 - in the US, by sending buyers a $50 rebate. This offer is scheduled to close on August 31.Doom 3ID Software programmer John Carmack is working on a new version of Doom, the first for more than five years, following a confrontation inside the company ("We are working on Doom for the next project unless you fire us"). Apparently Doom 3 will be based on new technology and will focus "on the single-player game experience". The release date is not known.WarhammerGames Workshop and Climax, a software developer, have formed a joint venture to produce a free online multi-player version of GW's Warhammer games. It will be available atwww.games-workshop.comand will be promoted through Games Workshop's chain of shops and White Dwarf magazine. Although the multiplayer version will offer "personalised armies", you probably wont have to paint them online.Net gameWimbledon opens on June 26, and French publisher Cryo Interactive will launch Tennis 2000 (&#163;29.99) the week    before it starts. The PC game, developed by Carapace, is said to be the most realistic tennis simulation so far, with eight male players and eight female players playing on different surfaces with different racquets. A website will let players download extra courts, racquets and players. Carapace developed theRoland Garros tennis gamesfor the French Open, which is on until June 11.UlalaDance is the ultimate weapon is Space Channel 5, which Sega might release for the Dreamcast in September. Invading Moralian aliens put unfortunate earth people into a hypnotic dance trance but   Ulala can free them by winning the battle of the dance. It's the kind of thing that plays better in Japan than in the Doom/Quake-driven west, but the retro-futuristic graphics should be fun for five minutes.Female fragThe Playing Fields resident female gamers Samantha and Nicky are hosting what they think is the UK's first Ladies Night in London on Thursday July 13. Guillemot and Won.net are sponsoring the event, with prize money going to breast cancer research. Details will appear atwww.theplayingfields.co.uk
The bank branch is dead. Or so we are led to believe by an increasing number of peculiarly named new entrants in the financial service arena, such asEgg.co.uk,First-e.co.uk,Smile.co.uk,IF.com,Moneygator.co.ukandCahoot.co.uk.They bombard us with the message that we should put our old bank into the dustbin and come online instead. As a result of increasing use of the telephone and internet, "big" high street banks, such as Barclays, say they are being forced to close hundreds of branches and become somewhat less " big". But do most consumers really want a totally remote relationship?Experience from North America and Scandinavia suggests not.Take for exampleCharles Schwab, one of the most successful online stockbrokers in the US. It has 7 million customers and conducts an impressive 80% of its trans actions online. But despite massive advertising and a strong web presence, 70% of its new customers still sign up by walking into a branch. Seeing that its wolf in sheep's clothing strategy was so successful, Schwab built 49 new branches in 1999, bringing its total to 356.On the other hand, take the fate of the online-only mbanx, set up by the Bank of Montreal in October 1996. It was similar in intention to Halifax's IF or Abbey National's Cahoot. Management expected it to attract a million customers. Three-and-a-half years later, it had only 170,000 accounts, while more than a million of the Bank of Montreal's customers had opted for lower rates to retain the flexibility of banking by telephone and branch as well as online.In August 1999, Bank of Montreal folded the internet subsidiary back into the bank. As the bank's Denny Allen   said: "Customers were falling back on branches more than we have thought and wanted to retain their branch privileges while capturing attractive online rates."What can we learn from these experiences?First, most of us want the convenience of "Martini banking" - access any time, any place, anywhere - via any access device. While the telephone and internet may make up a larger share of our inter-actions with our financial institution, we also want the option to bank face to face, especially if there are banks prepared to continue to offer it.Second, lists of FAQs &#91;Frequently Asked Questions&#93; cannot answer non-standard questions or reassure us that the product is appropriate for our needs. Humans are still better, particularly for advice on complex or infrequently purchased products.Third, and most importantly, in an increasingly cluttered and volatile market place, how can we decide which institution is reliable? A physical location is a marvellous way to reinforce the impression of permanence and reduce marketing costs.Following in Schwab's footsteps, most of the born-on-the-web online stockbrokers, like the nouveau riche buying a country estate, are planting roots in the real world to broaden their appeal.The only trouble is that the internet community is afflicted bv Orwellian doublespeak and will not call a branch a branch. E*Trade calls branches 'investment centres', DAB refers to 'permanent trade fairs', and First-e has 'entertainment zones'. But the implication is clear. Many of the leading American and European players are seeing value in the physical.However, this is far from good news for the high street banks. The invasion of the customer snatchers is putting tremendous pressure on banks' profit margins, especially for simple products that can be sold directly, such as savings, credit cards and motor insurance. Banks will have to re-invent themselves and reduce costs aggressively.One way to do this is to   significantly scale back branch networks. Banks will also have to offer more choice and sell other people's products alongside their own to compete with the range the new businesses offer. The successful financial institution of the future will be like a mythical supermarket that devises a unique menu matched to your nutritional needs.As for the new internet banks, I expect that if they want to grow beyond offering simple products on a large scale, many will require substantial call centres and a number of investment centres. As with many internet businesses, over time the real beneficiary will not be the internet bank manager but us, the consumers.&#149;  Huw van Steenis, e-Finance Strategist at JP Morgan, has recently published Invasion Of The Customer Snatchers: Online Finance In Europe'.
The Man, in the person of Lars Ullrich of Metallica, is upset about people sending MP3 files over the internet. In case you've been on Mars recently, MP3 is a format for compressing music (eg, tracks from CDs) into smaller files that can easily be sent over the net and stored in portable devices. After the heavy metal anti-establishment, living on   the edge, wild man had finished demanding that the US government ban MP3 exchange, he took legal action against Napster.Napster is a service that enables people to publish music files on their computers, making them available to anyone with a Napster client. Your computer tells Napster's computer what you have available so that when someone else uses their Napster   client to search for something, your file shows up on their screen. They can choose to download it or not.Metallica "won". Napster was forced to delete the user names of the 335,000 users named by Metallica, leaving the miscreants no other choice than to log back in again with a new user name.While it's possible that The Man might go after one or two individual users to make an example of them (even Metallica's lawyer says it would be "economically ridiculous" to go after users) it would only be a gesture.There are Napster-like services springing up all over the place with Scour, Imesh and Gigabeat (to name but a few) coming on stream.The battle raging over MP3   has a wider context, because MP3 is a proxy for all digital content.This is why the assembled teams of expensive lawyers are taking the whole thing so seriously.But what can they do? Even if they are successful in preventing students from swapping MP3 files via Napster, worse nightmares await. Gnutella, which unlike Napster has no central server to go after, already has more files on its network thanNapster. Freenet, which combines similar distributed file management with strong cryptography, is coming together.Both of them implement a new kind of distributed system, far more interesting (and with far greater ramifi cations) than Napster. Marc Andreessen, a co-founder of Netscape Communications and a former chief technology officer for AOL, has called Gnutella "a benevolent virus".Of real significance is the fact that both Gnutella and Freenet search for information and then provide it without telling where it came from.Gnutella software is both a client and a server - it's known as a servant, in fact, to distinguish it from both. It runs on someone's computer and communicates with a handful of other computers that pass information from one to another, which is why it is compared to a virus.So that every request for information doesn't have to traverse the entire Gnutella   universe, the servants maintain a simple cache: if you've asked for information about MP3s, for example, other servants will pass any MP3 information that they recieve on to you.Freenet differs from Gnutella in that, as requests are satisfied, so the servants in the chain keep copies of the information (not just the "pointer" to it). This serves to spread data around the internet quickly and makes it effectively impossible to delete anything.Data gravitates closer to the point at which it is being used, or goes away. Freenet also searches for and identifies data by cryptographic "hashes" of keywords rather than the keywords themselves.So it's hard to find out what information is on a system or what anyone is looking for.The music industry, meanwhile, is hoping that Secure Rights Management (SRM) technologies will catch on. The idea here is that instead of MP3, consumers might be persuaded to use an alternative format.I can't see that there's much incentive to do this: why would a typical consumer buy music in a format that is restricted to their PC?Think of it this way. If CDs couldn't be copied on to tapes to listen to in the gym, or duplicated so that you can put a copy in the car but leave the original safe at home, or ripped into MP3 to listen to on your laptop, then would you buy more or less of them?Surely a great part of the utility of a CD (to me, anyway) is precisely that you can do things with it. The alternative to not being able to duplicate a CD for the car isn't buying another CD: it's listening to the radio instead.It seems to me that more books, and magazines exist now than did before the invention of the photocopier, and more people make a living from the music industry since the invention of the phono graph. (Imagine how scary it must have seemed to a performing artist a hundred years ago: oh no, people will never go to concerts again!)Perhaps, and it's only a suggestion, the content producers (whether bands, film makers, novelists or whatever) would be better off directly spending their money on exploring new business models than indirectly spending it (via their record company or publisher) on lawyers to defend the old ones.For example: why do record companies exist? Obviously they sign up and then promote talent, but one key reason why musicians need record companies is that they have no other means of getting paid.If, however, advances in micropayments and other technologies mean that artists can collect money directly from their audience then the record company is no longer part of the value network.Should it turn out that fans won't buy music at all - even for micropayments - and that revenues for future artists are to come from concerts, sponsorship and merchandising, then this is just as bad for the record companies because they would be wholly redundant.There is, frankly, no possibility of stopping the zero marginal cost of distribution of digital content over the net.Should content producers (ie artists) be worried about this? I rather think not: artists may find in future they will have to make most of their money from concerts, sponsorship and merchandising , but they will still make it.The people who should be worried are the content owners: their position in the value network is the one at risk. When it comes to MP3 vs. The Man, The Man hasn't got a prayer.Web addressesGnutellawww.gnutella.wego.comNapsterwww.napster.comImeshwww.imesh.comScourwww.scour.com
Blear watchDo these guys ever do any work? After gaining a certain amount of er, international attention for their spoof potato-powered web server - many august media outlets believed the story athttp://totl.net/Spud/to be true - the people at Totl.net now bring you theBeer Witch Project. For the non-Brits, they've included a hilarious glossary to such exotic phrases as "offy". But we like the little glowing red Beer Witch man - made of beer cans, of course.Grave humourAnyone spot a strange Victorian-looking funeral procession heading through London on Monday? It ended up in Heaven - the nightclub - for a celebratory wake. You can be excused if you didn't realise it was a PR stunt forwww.burymeright.com. This new site is there to help you plan your own departure. They say that "as the deceased party, you have so little active input into your own funeral, you may find yourself at the centre of a well-meant but truly inappropriate occasion which you wouldn't wish on your worst enemy".Spam SpadeTrying to find out who is sending you spam, who owns a web domain name, or the path a given email took before it reached you?Sam Spadeis a great collection of tools for anyone trying a bit of cybersleuthing. There's a section that explains the various tools and how to use them. However, it isn't a site for newbies: some basic knowledge of how the web works is needed.Eire brushFew people realise Ireland was once home to some of the leading European animation houses, producing full-length features such as A Mouse's Tail in the 1980s. Although its prominence in this area has declined, there's still a strong community of animators, and they'd like to boost awareness of their work. Some dedicated souls have createdAnamu, an online database of Irish animations and animators. A wide range of short animations can be viewed online: the site creators say they want to make their work available to a wider audience, since most cinemas no longer show short features before the start of a film. Anamu also has information about the first Irish Animation Festival, to be held in Dublin's Temple Bar area in November.TrailerIf you hate personal homepages and aren't of a sensitive disposition, you'll lovewelcome.to/mytrailerparkpage. Amazing what the liberal use of Photoshop can do for a boy's site, and doesn't one of those twisted pictures look kind of like John Major?Top peopleThose who consider themselves especially deserving - and who doesn't? - might be interested inLondon Elite, which purports to offer the discerning visitor or resident a guide to all that is best in the capital city. It claims to include places with an "extra indefinable quality" but not necessarily the most expensive, and promises to exclude the pompous and pretentious. One interesting feature is a list of places women can go on their own and feel welcome and catered for.The wordMedia hounds will enjoy theGlobal Journalism Review, which features reportage on issues affecting the practice of journalism worldwide. There are also links to international newspapers, lists of contacts and conferences, global press councils, journalism courses, and more.Non-stopUprushis a new UK online magazine targeting those who "only sleep when they blink". Along with celebrity writers - oh no, not more! - they'll also be offering the UK debut of the cult US animated series, WhirlGirl. New instalments appear each Friday, with an archive of the previous episodes.If you prefer something less trendy, theGlobal Music Networkoffers streaming broadcasts of classical and jazz music around the clock. This may suit those who sleep only when they blink.) June highlights include a performance of Beethoven's Symphony No 3 by the Philharmonia conducted by Christoph von Dohn&aacute;nyi at the Royal Festival Hall, London.New and notedRetail siteStreets Onlinehas launched Xchange, a new entertainment portal for buying, selling and exchanging entertainment-related goods.http://Swizzle.co.ukis a new, cool virtual hangout for girls aged between 13 and 17. Online shoppers can go towww.buysly.comand create a "middleman" account so they don't have to disclose personal information to every place they shop. Booklovers can browse and buy atwww.illustratedlibrary.com, and chat with authors and other site visitors. whilewww.waystohelp.comoffers a free weekly magazine listing trips that combine fundraising and fun.Six of the bestPlaces to complainMoaner's heavenwww.kvetch.comWhine for resultswww.ecomplaints.comWhere to gowww.complain.comGet it off your chestwww.thecomplainet.comThe European Ombudsmanwww.euro-ombudsman.eu.intKeep it localwww.open.gov.uk/lgo/complain.htm
Music debateRe Holding back the fears by Mick Hucknall (June 1).I think it is unfair to simply dismiss the "content-only" dot.coms as being only interested in making money at the expense of the well-being of the artist.Agreed, their actions and the services they are providing are asking fundamental questions about the existing record industry. Possibly they are "content-only" services because the existing music barons have kept them out of other parts of the business.As much as people respect the artists, most people have little sympathy for the companies that represent them. The same people who had sympathy for George Michael when he fought a court case against Sony will have little sympathy for the rocks stars taking the record companies' side against the likes of Napster.Sites like Napster are popular not because they are for free but because they are convenient - 24/7 access to any piece of music you want is a great service.The pop industry has to go back to its roots and develop innovative services that harness this new distribution system. There is still time as the real impact of this service will come about only with the broadening of the internet's bandwidth in the next year or so.In general, because of the internet, products are becoming services and all industries must change their business models to reflect this.Mike Kavanaghmkavanagh@intellicom.co.ukKeep it simpleWould folk designing web pages for commerce please try them out on an obsolescent PC and also try to get inside the mind of a potential customer?Last night I casually thought about an autumn trip across the North Sea so I tried some ferry sites. Most have wonderful pictures etc that take forever to download. Then they are very coy about   giving a quote for the fares. Stena from Harwich, for example, wanted me to register with my email address and a password. Well I am not going to do that since I fear I will be deluged with spam and in any case I will forget my password.So let us have quick loading sites (even black and white!) and quick establishment of "how much". This may not win any website awards but should bring in customers!Roy Murchier_murchie@hotmail.comWindows painAs a regular reader of Feedback, I was pleased to see three testimonies &#91;John Rigg, David Harper, Lionel Scott&#93;, relating to the stability and reliability of the operating systems Windows and Linux.Ever since I was coerced into using Windows 95 and then 98, I have been dismayed and angered by the astonishing instability and unreliability of the monopoly product on the market.As a freelance translator, dependent on my computer for my daily bread, I have spent eight to 10 hours a day for a period of five years with my computer switched on, under Windows control, using a multiplicity of application software packages of various origins.My reboot statistics are very similar to those given by Lionel Barnett. A day without any freeze-up of some sort is very rare indeed, the norm is more like having to live with two to three crashes a day, sometimes many more, for whatever reasons.I have learned to live with these deplorable conditions, by designing a whole raft of backup procedures, starting with saving the current document automatically every two minutes to making time-managed multiple copies spread in time of sensitive customised files such as the dreaded NORMAL.DOT of Word 97.A crash means loss of time - several minutes with a reboot - plus the aggravation of being stuck with a product which has obviously not improved in reliability over the years.Online would be well advised to provide fewer pages telling us about the latest games, the latest graphics and the newest multimedia and cyberspace sensations and to spend more time tackling the fundamental problem of the creation and support of a stable reliable   operating system software.I, for my part, will give Linux a go, the limitation being that a lot of software is still Linux-incompatible.Jean-Louis Metzgermetzgerjl@onetel.net.ukBlame the kitI have read with bemusement your correspondents' tales of Windows crashes.I can't speak for Windows 95/98 but I have run NT Server for many years (version 4 and before that 3.51) and the few crashes I've had were all due to power outages. As to my NT office machine - which I use a lot for systems-level programming - I can recall only one crash in four or five years which was due to the hard disk exhibiting the early signs of giving up the ghost. My colleagues all tell the same story of high reliability for Windows NT. Yes, I have problems with applications crashing but that does not take down the whole operating system.So what are all these people doing to their machines to have so many crashes? My suspicion is that it's all down to dodgy hardware - as with most things, you can trim costs by skimping on the digital design or using inferior grade components yet the computer still works... most of the time.The price you pay for inadequate design margins is reduced reliability. It would be helpful if future correspondents complaining of Windows crashes could state whether their machines are reputable kit or bargain-basement bundles of dubious origin. I strongly suspect the latter. Caveat emptor!Peter Rockettpir@bartok.shef.ac.ukCrash freeAll those replies about operating systems other than Microsoft and not a mention of Acorn Risc OS. My wife has one, and when she finds me fuming over the PC keyboard with some appalling error message staring me in the face she sweetly says: "Crash, Mike, what's a crash?" I could scream!Mike Harveymike@rusty56.freeserve.co.ukE-what?Is it an E-mail, an Email, an e-mail or an email?Peter Jonespierrejones@clara.co.ukOnline replies:email.
RoboMowThe bad news: robots have started taking over the world. The good news: they're mowing lawns. Or at least, that's what the RL500, from Friendly Robotics, is designed to do, and more devices will follow. The company, which was founded    in Israel in 1995, says it is its dream "to one day make our robotic appliances as commonplace in the home as washing machines and dishwashers." The RL500 is a small robot powered by two 12v sealed lead-acid batteries, which are rechargeable.RoboMow uses RoboScan patented technology to find its way around with the help of an electric perimeter wire. Sensors prevent it from running into the family dog, though not vice versa.  In fact, the only aggressive thing about the RL500 is the price. Friendly Robotics is selling machines in the UK for &#163;499 inc VAT. Apparently people usually expect it to cost more. At that price, it may appeal not just to geeks with too much money but also to people with allergies or mobility problems and too much money. Friendly Robotics UK is based in Thame, Oxfordshire: phone 01844 261 653, email friendly@fr-uk.co.uk or seewww.friendlyrobotics.com. (JS)Bluetooth begins to biteJust as you were getting over the hype for Wap (wireless application protocol) mobile phones, another flurry of techno spin is headed our way with the arrival of Bluetooth.Bluetooth is a new way to get electronic devices to talk to each other through the air. So it's bye, bye cables and hello seamless integration of mobiles, handheld organisers, laptops, desktop PCs and any other gadget which has the technology attached.Or so the story goes.It has taken three years of   negotiations over the new standard to get to the stage where, this week, telecoms group Ericsson has unveiled "the world's first Bluetooth-equipped mobile phone", the T36. Ericsson promises you willbe able to do all sorts of useful things, like swap ring tones and play multi-player games, using the cutting-edge technology.Already announced is the company's first Bluetooth gadget - the funky looking cordless handset. Also available at the same time as the phone will be a Bluetooth PC card for laptops and a Bluetooth Home Base, which will switch your mobile phone from its cellular link to a landline connection when you're at home. That should help save on mobile bills and mean you need only one phone for all your calls.But you still shouldn't get too excited - the mobile won't be available until the end of the year. Worse, Erics son is refusing to even hint at what the price will be, so we can only assume it will be lots.Rest assured, however, that by the time Ericsson's first effort arrives there will be plenty more crowding the Bluetooth block. More than 1,900 companies, including all the big hardware manufacturers and the likes of Microsoft, have adopted the Bluetooth standard, and are developing their own products.It could make the flurry of   Wap announcements earlier this year look like amateurs' day.  (NM)Worthy of noteHaving gone from a standing start to number two in the US notebook market, Sony is hoping to repeat its success in the desktop PC arena. Due to reach American stores later this month is a $1,000 Vaio branded machine that Sony is   billing as a "digital entertainment device.""Even on the desktop, we continue to focus on entertainment rather than the pure computing applications," explained company president Fujio Nishida at a New York press conference last week. And to prove his point he described the new Vaios as being stuffed with music, video and internet software rather than business-style facilities.Sony has also teamed up with Palm to develop a series of personal organiser style products. These are scheduled to go on sale in the US in the autumn.There are no plans to launch either the desktop PCs or the personal organiser in the UK just yet.The company also announced its year end results with Sony Corp's sales up 15% on the previous year. Fujio Nishida credited the growth to the popularity of FD Trinitron WEGA TVs, Digital 8 Handycam camcorders, Digital Mavica cameras, DVD video players and Vaoi notebook personal computers.  (AN)
DU-R100 PC RadioD-Link	&#163;35 plus VATIt looks a lot like a car aerial, except that the base is a small plastic stand. It plugs into a USB socket on a Windows PC, with a jack branching to a "line in" port a sound card.The result is the desktop equivalent of a radio tuner, with Jazz FM (or your choice of poison) pouring out of your   computer's speakers or headphones.The result isn't bad: not Rega Radio quality but listenable. The mouse-operated control panel is easy to use, and you can pre-set favourite FM stations.But it does prompt the question: why on earth would you want such a thing?The first answer is that the box includes software that will capture a sound file and let you play it back, or convert it into an MP3 file. This isn't going to compete with ripping tracks from a CD, because DJs tend to talk over anything interesting.However, it could be useful for grabbing news and comedy programmes for MP3 playback while jogging: they aren't things you'll find via Napster.When recording, you can choose the compression ratio of your Wav (wave audio) file. There are three settings: 11,025MHz (for voice),   22,050 (cassette) and 44,100MHz (CD quality).The second answer is that the control panel also includes a timer. If you want   to "tape" a programme this is one way to do it. It's not the only way, and it's probably not the cheapest, but it is easy and it works.D-Link also suggests that users can use the DU-R100 to develop their own radio control applications. There's no advice on doing this in the slim but functional manualIf you don't need one of these functions, then at &#163;35 plus VAT, the DU-R100 is a rather expensive toy.Incidentally, the DU-R100's base is made of translucent plastic so it looks like an iMac peripheral... but no Mac version is available. ("We haven't been asked that before," said a spokesman.)The software supplied on CD-rom works with Windows 98 and later versions of Windows 95 (ie OSR2).&#149;  D-Link: 020-8235 5555 or seewww.dlink.co.ukVirtually Islamic: Computer-mediated Communication And Cyber Islamic Environments by Gary Bunt(Cardiff: University of Wales Press, 2000)  ISBN 0-7083-1611-5 	&#163;14.99It's not every day that a book about the internet emanates from a university's theology department. While most people's attention has been focused on e-commerce and dot.com millionaires, Gary Bunt, a lecturer in Islamic studies at Lampeter, has been exploring what he terms "cyber Islamic environments".Virtually Islamic is the first wide-ranging study of the way Muslims around the world are using the net, and the this may have on Islam.Muslims are often perceived as ultra-conservative, and that is the case in some countries: the book tells of a 37-year-old man in Sudan whose father threatened to beat him if he ever caught him using the web. But elsewhere they have adopted the internet with alacrity.Most of the Islamic groups that figure in the news - Hamas, Hezbollah, the Taleban, etc - now have an internet presence, as does the grandson of the late Iranian leader, Ayatollah Khomeini. There's even a gay site called Queer Jihad.One reason for this interest in the internet, the book   suggests, is "da'wa", the duty of believers to spread the word of Islam. Setting up websites is a simple and cheap way to fulfil that obligation. Another reason is that various kinds of information which Muslims need can be found much more quickly and easily via the internet. The Koran, the holy book, is available in searchable form at several sites. The timing of the five daily prayers changes from day to day and place to place, but a quick search provides times for anywhere in the world.There's also software which calculates the direction of Mecca (which Muslims must face when praying) from any location. Several of the Muslims interviewed by the author were excited by the possibility that the internet may one day link up the billion-or-so believers around the world into a single religious community (or "digital umma") of a kind not seen since the early days of Islam 1,400 years ago. One small example is the online mosque established in Belfast in 1995 to serve 3,000 Muslims scattered among the feuding Protestants and Catholics, but now catering for a global audience.The internet is also likely to make Muslims more aware of the diversity of views held in   different parts of the world. Up to now, distance and strict censorship by local establishments have prevented many Muslims from learning about alternative interpretations - or, in some cases, even knowing they existed.This means that orthodox viewpoints are more likely to be challenged in the future. Muslims generally take a stern view of anything which they consider defames Islam (which in some cases simply means their own interpretation of it). That attitude is difficult to reconcile with the free spirit of the internet.The book discusses the case of SuraLikeIt, a site which published satirical verses mimicking the style of the Koran. Following complaints, AOL blew away the site. Predictably, numerous other versions popped up elsewhere on the net. Some governments, most notably Saudi Arabia, have set up expensive filtering systems to keep unsuitable material out of their countries.But filtering systems have difficulty in distinguishing between, say, a devout article and a satirical one. In a test, one of the most popular filters blocked an innocuous site entitled Welcome to Saudi Arabia: the Land of Islam.The book gets a little technical: appreciating its arguments requires a basic knowledge of Islamic concepts, but there is a glossary. There's also an address list for major Islam-related websites.www.virtuallyislamic.com.  (BW)Web addressesBelfast Islamic Centrehttp://ireland.iol.ie/~afifiHamaswww.hamas.org/Hezbollahwww.hizbollah.org/Queer Jihadwww.geocities.com/WestHollywood/Heights/8977/Talebanwww.taleban.com
How is Discovery approaching interactive TV?We're split into two different divisions and I basically look after web operations and someone else looks after the interactive television side.We've just launched Discovery Health which is our first integrated online channel. We have four different environments for finding information about your health, lifestyle or well-being needs. We have deals withThink Natural,Embarrassing ProblemsandHealth Mediaa news wire. There are lots more irons in the fire.How will the interactive platform will change things?Digital interactive television isn't going to change it as much as the advent of broadband. At present it's a good medium but limited. The broadband model will extend things and give you the opportunity to access programming more quickly. I don't see broadband as video on demand but a much more enriching process.Do any of the new platforms pose a threat to the PC?I actually think there's a place for the PC and the TV. I don't really believe we'll end up with one platform to do everything. PC is a much more individual environment as opposed to the more group environment of interactive TV and I don't see that changing.Any favourite places on the net?Skybut that's because I spent five and a half years working there. I actually use that for most things. I go toAmazonif I'm looking to buy books, and I would go to one of the women's portals if I was looking for something specifically female orientated. Of them all I preferHandbag.com.Popcornis also an excellent site.Do you find the number of women in top IT jobs disappointing?Very disappointing. I think I got a lucky break when I joined Sky on the interactive analogue side. That led me into the cross media platform environment and I was lucky to be in the right place at the right time. It didn't have any experts so it was quite easy to become an expert in those days. I think it's sad that it's dominated by men - and that's borne out by every industry dinner that I attend where I'm probably one of three ladies! I have a female biased team in my division but it's not something I can guarantee as the best person for it is always going to get the job. I think women still perceive it as an environment that's difficult to get into and therefore maybe don't battle hard enough.Anything you'd like to see change with IT or the net?I'd like to see the methods of implementing the technology become easier. I think that does prevent a lot of women getting into the industry. In reality these methods should be based at the service end of the equation.&#149;  Learn more about Discovery at:www.discoveryeurope.com
We must all be mad: each day we pass up thousands of opportunities to become millionaires and ignore dead-cert stock tips. Every time we delete another of the junk emails clogging up our inbox, we miss another chance to transform our shabby little lives into something fabulous.Well, that's what the 10 or so junk emails I get in my inbox every day would have me believe, anyway. E-crap like this is termed spam, after the Monty Python sketch where tinned meat somewhat dwarfs the rest of the menu.We've all done it: you log onto your email account and are told that you have five new messages. Excitedly, you start scanning the "From" headers. Disconsolate, you realise that it's all spam, spam, spam, spam - oh, and an email from your mum.Spotting spam is not tricky: it's usually from a temporary address to mask the sender, fhjskr373@hotmail.com, for example. The subject headline usually reads as though untold riches are just lying around waiting for you, eg: "Haven't you made your e-millions yet?" The worst are the kind that try and trick you into opening them using insultingly stupid methods. Jerry3228@yahoo.com was never really in with a chance   the other day when he mailed me with the Subject: "Here is that info John" (although I think it's only fair to point out that this is written by someone idiotic enough to have opened the "I Love You" virus a few weeks ago).Even if you wanted to reply to these mass-mailing morons with a few choice expletives, it's usually impossible to reply since the email address has been banned pretty sharpish by an annoyed ISP.So who's sending it? Well, it's very hard to know, since no one ever tells you. Companies spam because it costs next to nothing, compared with the costs of junk snail-mail. Most of the time a third-party spammer is hired to spread the word on the latest sure-fire pyramid selling/cure for impotence/cheap insurance/porn site...The kind of sites you visit and chat rooms you frequent does not determine the kind of emails you will receive. Spammers spend most of the time panhandling for legit email addresses, writing "bot" programs that trawl the web for addresses, looking through ISP directories, chat rooms, and web pages. The more communicative you are on the web, the more chance you have of being spammed.Some spammers don't even bother with finding the email address. They just use a little   imagination and create likely-sounding addresses; John_Smith@hotmail.com, john.smith, johnsmith2000, johnsmith99, jsmith etc.There are a number of ways to avoid being spammed, ranging from the obvious to the more crafty. Every time you register on a site, (and the best sites often require this) you have to hand over an email address. Keep one email address free for sites like this, and only ever give that email address when out and about on the web. Keep a personal mail address just for friends and family, and you should see your spam mail reduced to a minimum. Give this address if you absolutely have to register new software too, since software companies are one of the major sources from which spammers "harvest" new addresses.If this sounds a little too much like giving in to the spammers, there are ways to be more proactive. Any email program worth its salt should offer you the option to filter your email. This means that you can divert email from any recognised spammers into its own folder that is regularly deleted. Both Hotmail and Yahoo offer filtering features, which will be a relief to anyone who has been away on holiday and comes back to find their inbox looking as overgrown as their garden.Filtering is tricky though,   since setting general rules for which emails to filter can cause problems. For example, a lot of spam comes from Yahoo and Hotmail accounts. Ban anything from x@hotmail.com and you can kiss goodbye to emails from your mates too. I tried banning any emails with all capital letters IN THE TITLE, since that's the case many spammers use for their emails. Then I realised that that had included all the emails from my parents, who were writing in caps because they weren't sure how to change the size of their type.Microsoft has made it easy to block unwanted emails by adding a very easy-to-use feature. Tick the box by any spam mails, then click on "Block sender". Hotmail will automatically block all future emails from that address. This may not work too well in the long run, since spammers rarely use the same email address for very long. You could adopt the same tactic, of course, and take up a new email address every few months, but the hassle involved isn't usually worth it.If you really want to lay the smack down on the spammers, then there are ways you can get stuck in. If the email address it's sent from is an established ISP or web-based email company, then simply forward the spam along with a short complaint. They should easily be able to block that user.But it's probably a damn sight easier to keep that can of whup-ass firmly holstered. At the end of the day getting rid of junk email is as easy as clicking your mouse, unlike the paper-based kind that is probably sitting on your doormat right now.
On Saturday evening, football fans all over Europe will settle down in their armchairs and prepare to tuck in to the smorgasbord of soccer that is Euro 2000.However, if the last major international football tournament is anything to go by, don't expect too many England fans to have much fun. Dodgy refereeing decisions, nail-bitingly close penalty shoot-outs and petulant outbursts from key players could all pile on the agony just as they did in France 1998.Conversely, if England do go all the way to the final, that's a marathon of at least 400 minutes of nerve-jangling football action that has to be endured.Fortunately, help is at hand in the form of our collection of Euro 2000 survival gadgets. We can't promise that they'll transform England's squad into an irresistible combination of the best bits of Brazil's 70, Italy's 82 and France's 98 teams. But they just might make the whole Euro 2000 armchair experience slightly less stressful.1 La-Z-Boy Oasis recliner (around &#163;1,600)A real contender for the coolest gadget of the 21st century, the Oasis smart recliner - calling it an armchair is like describing Zinedine Zidane as a midfield plodder - is a must-have for Euro 2000.Owners won't have to   worry about nipping to the fridge during the game as the Oasis features an integrated cool-box primed to house up to six cans of liquid refreshment. At half time they can discuss the finer points of Keegan's tactics with a friend by using its built-in phone.If a penalty shoot-out looms, they can prepare themselves for the inevitable by activating the six-point massage system. England fans can even have it custom-made in their team's colours.All it needs is an intelligent eject mode which automati cally propels you three feet into the air each time Michael Owen scores.2 Toshiba 56PW8DB (around &#163;3,000)Why bother watching the games on the big screen at your local when you can install an even bigger one in your living room?The Toshiba 56PW8DB boasts a 56inch screen which makes it the biggest widescreen set on sale in the UK. It also comes with extra surround speakers and a special audio tweak that's designed to give your living room that Belgian big match atmosphere. It's so realistic you'll almost be able to smell the chips and mayonnaise.3 Olympus Eye-Trek (around &#163;700)Chances are that just as you are about to hibernate in the living room for the footballing marathon, British summer time will finally arrive.Well, with the Olympus Eye-Trek glasses you can still watch Steve McManaman's mazy runs and top up your tan. A wireless sender transmits pictures from your TV set to the glasses within a range of about 30 feet. By our reckoning that's far enough for you to watch the game from your garden deckchair.4 Roadstar LCD4004TFT (around &#163;180)Sadly, real life continues throughout Euro 2000 and, horror of horrors, there may come a   point when you are not within sight of a TV as a crucial game is kicking off. Your secret weapon is this 4inch LCD TV from Roadstar. It's small enough to be accommodated by your briefcase but large enough to give you a fair idea of what's making fans jump up and down in the Low Countries.5 Nokia 7110 phone (price dependent upon package)Euro 2000 is the first major Wap football tournament, so expect to see lots of edgy looking football supporters glued to their phone screens on the train home. They'll be checking out the Football 365, (BT Cellnet) Sports.com (BT Cellnet), BBC (Vodafone) sites as well as emailing their views to fellow fans. There are Wappers in the England camp too as goal-scoring ace Michael Owen can email home using his Nokia 7110 phone. Vodafone is also offering standard phone owners a "Footy on the Phone" service which sends an SMS message every time their team scores a goal.6 Panasonic NV-FJ710 (price around &#163;300)If you have   to resort to recording the games, Panasonic's new VCR could prove very handy. It features an extended play model that squeezes up to 12 hours on to a standard E240 tape. As England only need to win five matches to reach the final, you'll be able to archive their glorious Euro 2000 campaign on to one tape and still have room for the EastEnders Omnibus.7 Presents Direct Massage Pen (around &#163;20)If England are three-nil down to Romania and Alan Hansen's half time analysis is giving you a headache - reach for this pen. Its vibrating tip will gently massage away your troubles, even if it won't do much for Kevin Keegan's.8 Cucina Deluxe Blow- torch (around &#163;29.95)This mini blowtorch is designed for Ainsley Harriot types to use in the kitchen for melting cheese, crisping a joint etc. However if John Motson utters something along the lines of "and England's fate rests on this Gareth Southgate penalty", you can use it to pre-empt your disappointment by flamb&eacute;ing the TV set.Euro 2000 websitesThe official sitewww.euro2000.orgThe England sitewww.the-fa.orgThe fan's site operated by The Football Supporter's Associationwww.fsa.org.ukLive commentary on many of the gameswww.bbc.co.uk/radio5liveA useful site with details of TV and radio coveragewww.totalfootball.co.uk/euro2000The alternative angle from the long-running footy fanzinewww.wsc.co.ukThe Guardian's site, home to that oasis of footballing sanity, The Fiverwww.footballunlimited.co.uk
It is a damp Tuesday morning, in a scruffy service station on the M8, halfway between Edinburgh and Glasgow. The smell of fried food is wafting around the Roadchef restaurant, but the handful of customers are paying little attention to their breakfast.In one corner, a man from Flextech is on his mobile phone, having a loud but impenetrable discussion about bandwidths. Two men in suits are opposite, apparently thrashing out the details of a government grant. By the window, a woman is poring over a presentation, which includes a set of glossy pictures of electronic components.This is the heart of Silicon Glen - the central belt of Scotland, which is home to one of the biggest clusters of hi-tech companies in Europe.Tartan, heather and bagpipes are not much in evidence here. Neither are the traditional Scottish heavy industries of shipbuilding and mining. The undulating land between the country's two biggest cities is like a giant science park, dotted with the glossy glass and chrome buildings favoured by start-up companies.Many have big ambitions. Brendan Hyland, chief executive of a new optoelectronics firm, Kymata, says: "We can bring to the central belt of Scotland what shipbuilding brought in the 1900s."Already, Scotland produces 28% of Europe's personal computers and 7% of the entire world's. The electronics industry employs 40,500 people directly, with a further 29,500 in the supply infrastructure. The software sector employs a further 20,000 people, and has a turnover of &#163;1.5bn.Driven by need for dataOf all the areas of Britain poised to benefit from the growth of the internet and the new economy, central Scotland is perhaps the most promising.The emphasis here is not on the much-hyped front-end consumer internet services, such asLastminute.comandFreeserve. Instead, the region's role is   more as the engine room of new technology. It houses companies producing the chips, lasers and circuits which allow information to travel instantly through the world wide web and across mobile phone networks.Neil Martin, chief executive of a Glasgow-based start-up, Compound Semiconductor Technologies, says: "It's all about the net round here. Things are being driven by the need for data, driven by the convergence of computer companies and telecoms."That is not to say that hi-tech businesses are new to Scotland. The electronics industry took root during the second world war, when companies shifted north to avoid the bombs dropping on English factories. Some geographical advantages quickly became clear. Central Scotland has a plentiful supply of water - essential for any kind of manufacturing. Transport connections are excellent, with two big cities on the doorstep and good air and sea links.Among the first big corporations to locate in the region was IBM, which   arrived in Greenock - the port just west of Glasgow - in 1951.An influx in the 1960s was led by National Semiconductor, Hewlett Packard and Motorola. They were followed by Compaq in the 1970s, NEC in the 1980s and more recently, Cisco - the internet network specialist which briefly became the world's most valuable company this year.Delivering aftercareThe presence of all these big employers has encouraged local universities - particularly Heriot-Watt, Glasgow and Strathclyde - to become centres of excellence in electronics and engineering. They are producing spin-out companies with unique intellectual property, in addition to a steady supply of graduates to fuel the growth of existing businesses.Bill Gold, senior manager at NEC's plant in Livingston, says: "If you've got good whisky and golf, you've got a good supply of water and land."He adds: "If I'm very honest, West Lothian and East Lanarkshire is not the most attractive area but it does have its advantages - it's only 20 minutes from here to each city."The evolution of NEC is typical of many such companies. In 1981, the firm began making memory chips in Livingston. Profit margins are enormous - an 8in silicon wafer costing &#163;15 can be turned into chips worth more than &#163;1,000.The problem is that the market for memory chips is highly volatile - prices collapsed in the late 1990s, partly due to the slump in Asian markets. Mobile phones have fuelled a revival - the liquid crystal display on phones is driven by semiconductor chips. NEC is moving more towards logic products - used to transmit digital messages - which are less liable to be considered commodities which can be transferred overseas.Similarly, IBM in Greenock has shifted its emphasis from making personal compuetrs to delivering customer support and e-commerce solutions. Of 5,000 staff on site, only 1,000 remain in manufacturing roles.Site director Charles Morrison says: "I   want my folk to be spending time not screwing things together but adding intellectual value. Every company out there is going to have to change its business model as a result of the web. We used to concentrate on making computers. But the web is about how to put PCs together. We're now trying to provide end-to-end solutions."Initiatives have sprung up across the region to encourage hi-tech start-ups. One is the Alba Centre in Livingston, run by Scottish Enterprise. The centre has set up a components exchange, allowing local companies to buy and sell each other's intellectual property, helping them to fill the gaps in their own technology.The centre is running a four-year doctorate programme in systems integration, and is building a new block - Integration House - containing office space and communal areas. Its director says: "We have to keep increasing the knowledge base. We need to act as a magnet to bring in overseas companies."The town of Livingston is enjoying the benefits. A former mining area, much of the new development is on reclaimed land. The landscape is bleak, uniform grassland with new housing estates situated on complicated ringroad networks.The town has a new hospital and a new college. A shopping centre, the Almondvale Centre, is buzzing with people and has a high concentration of shops selling pricey electrical goods.Closer to Glasgow, Compound Semiconductor Technology has been established as an incubator for new companies. It takes designs from entrepreneurs and produces working prototypes of optoelectronics and chips.Biotechnology has joined the technology boom - among the local companies is PPL Therapeutics, the company best known for cloning Dolly the Sheep.Few would claim that the benefits of the hi-tech economy have yet trickled down to all the areas of urban deprivation in Glasgow. However, the "new economy" looks set to keep Scotland in chips for years to come.
A US federal judge ordered the Microsoft Corporation to split         into two companies today, prescribing the biggest corporate         breakup since AT&amp;T while harshly rebuking the global software giant for         stifling computer-age competition.Potentially monumental, the ruling by US District Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson  was not the last word in a case that could define the limits of companies operating in  a high-tech economy.   Microsoft has promised to appeal in the case, which had been pressed by the  Justice Department and 19 states. The case could go to the US Court of Appeals  or directly to the Supreme Court.Jackson, who concluded two months ago that Microsoft had violated antitrust law,  ordered the company to be split into these parts:&#149; One that would oversee the Windows operating system.&#149; A second that would handle all other Microsoft software, such as its "Word"  program.The Justice Department and 17 of the 19 states recommended that the company be  broken into two pieces - one to own and market Windows, source of the  company's monopoly position, and another to control other software and the  company's Internet business.
The US judge overseeing the Microsoft antitrust case will release his final ruling at 4.30pm (EDT - 9.30pm BST) this evening. It is widely expected to include an order to break up Bill Gates's company.US district judge Thomas Penfield Jackson ruled in April that Microsoft had broken antitrust laws. He is now believed likely to back the US justice department's plan to divide the corporation into two companies, one making and selling operating systems for personal computers such as Windows and the other containing Microsoft's other software and online businesses.At a hearing last month, Judge Jackson requested only minor changes to the government plan, leading many antitrust experts to believe he is receptive to the proposed break up.Microsoft has said a break up would be bad for consumers and has vowed to appeal against any such ruling. The company has predicted that it will prevail on major points."A break up of Microsoft, I think, would be an awful thing for consumers and for the industry. The real issue in a possible break up would be the harm it does to innovation," chief executive Steve Ballmer said in Oslo."But we'll be fine either way," he added.
Powers allowing Scotland Yard, MI5 and other state agencies to intercept all internet and email communications involve "a serious potential invasion of commercial privacy" and ought to be radically redrafted, theBritish Chambers of Commercesaid yesterday .Chris Humphries, the BCC director general, warned in a letter to the home secretary, Jack Straw, that the regulation of investigatory powers bill - now before parliament - could put British e-commerce at a competitive disadvantage that would "frustrate the government's ambition of making the UK the best place to trade electronically by 2002".As drafted, the bill would require the police and security service to obtain just one warrant from a judge that would allow them to engage on potentially unlimited "fishing expeditions" in a company's electronic archive. In theory, four warrants would give them access to all electronic data held by Barclays, Lloyds TSB, NatWest and HSBC banks.Home Office minister   Charles Clarke said in March: "The bill will not be withdrawn." But he added that Mr Straw was prepared to listen to suggestions for improvement and was anxious to see keen parliamentary scrutiny.Mr Humphries said the BCC had three main areas of concern, the first being that the cost burden on Britain's 10 big internet service providers of their having to provide links to the proposed MI5 monitoring centre had been underestimated.Secondly, the BCC is alarmed by the orders that could be served requiring a company employee on pain of imprisonment to disclose passwords and code words and to remain silent about the fact that he or she had been so ordered. Quite apart from the civil liberties implications, the BCC said this could put the employee in a position of being forced to breach the trust of company directors.Thirdly, the bill reverses the burden of proof in the cases of lost or missing passwords or codes, forcing employees to prove to a court that these were genuinely stolen or mislaid.
The north-south divide is nothing new. Go back 150 or 200 years and Britain was split into distinct geographical and economic entities, just as it is now. The difference then was that the north was in the ascendancy, acting as the cradle of the industrial revolution. James Watt, George Stephenson, Richard Arkwright: these were not part of a London-based metropolitan elite, but from the north and Scotland.Perhaps due to its supremacy in the age of coal and iron, Britain lagged behind in the second industrial revolution. British brains helped to develop many of the inventions of the modern age - the jet engine, radar, penicillin, the computer - but an inability to bring capital together with a skilled workforce meant a slow but relentless fall down the industrial league table.A third industrial revolution is now under way, built around the half a dozen industries - from biotechnology to robotics - that are likely to shape the world over the next couple of generations. For all countries the age of the internet represents huge challenges, but for Britain more than most.Get it right and Britain could end more than a century of relative decline and revive those regions still scarred by the decline of the sectors that powered the first industrial revolution. Get it wrong, and Britain could spend this century as it did the last, always a couple of steps behind the best and struggling to catch up.All this presupposes that a third industrial revolution is under way. Constant technological change is a consistent theme of industrialised societies, but there is a school of thought which says that the global economy is marked by long cycles of around 60 years, each dominated by a prevailing industrial model that is invented, developed and finally becomes exhausted. Arguably, the transformation in the 19th century wrought by railways, the telegraph and electricity changed lives far more fundamentally than the internet ever will, but clearly something quite fundamental is changing the makeup of western economies.The optimistic scenario is that the age of the internet plays to Britain's strengths. Just as the first industrial revolution was built around the ingenuity of self-taught men beavering away on their own, so the third industrial revolution prizes originality over organisation. Accordingly, the more flexible and fluid anglo-saxon countries have an advantage over those nations that are more reliant on order and traditional command and control structures.The accepted wisdom is that the new economy will be reliant on plentiful supplies of top-grade human capital, something Britain's educational system is well-placed to provide.A gloomier view is that Britain does well in software and has traditionally been good at providing services, but that the real money in the internet age will be made by companies providing physical products rather than ideas. Here, Britain's inability to translate pure research into mass production will cost it dear, as in the 20th century.Policymakers will be unable to decide whether the right course of action is to let the market rule or to intervene vigorously, and the result will be the worst of both worlds.The experience of previous technological paradigms suggests that government does matter, not so much through owning assets and directing investment but by creating the right social and political infrastructure in which new industries can flourish.It may take decades before there is full flowering of the internet age, with the prizes going to those countries that adapt soonest, adapt best and adapt most comprehensively. The fact that the US has dominated the first phase of the third industrial revolution does not mean that it will continue to lead as the new technology enters a more mature phase, when the accent will be on incremental improvements to products rather than innovation.In one sense, the advent of the dot.com era provides Britain with an opportunity to draw a line beneath its failures of the past century and start anew. Whether the opportunity will be taken, however, depends on whether the right lessons have been learned. Relying in the 20th century on the transport infrastructure, educational system, working practices and social attitudes of a bygone age cost the country dear. It is to be hoped history does not repeat itself.
It is a strange statistic. It sounds spurious. But nevertheless it is trotted out locally with dead-pan confidence: 70% of Japanese computer games are designed within a 30 mile radius of Liverpool. Forget the wit and the tourists on their Magical Mystery tours. Liverpudlians now live and work in an e-port, churning out computer games, software and web designers at a rate that suggests the creative juices of the north-west are flowing as fast as they have for decades.And just a glance at the new structures of steel and glass springing up around the old docks says this City has got a serious case of the new economies.Further evidence of such can be found in the car park outsidePsygnosis, a world-leading computer games developer which is based in Liverpool's Wavertree Technology Park.There's a Porche Boxster, a dozen BMWs. various4WD's and a scattering of MX5 coup&eacute;s. Most of the models are owned by the majority of twenty-something whizz kids who make up Psygnosis's 220 staff."Our staff are quite well paid compared to the average Joe out there," said John Bickley, general manager at Psygnosis. "They have a disposable income and we have helped play a small part in the rejuvenation of the Liverpool economy which is definitely on the up. It's almost literally every month now that new bars and restaurants are opening up, which to me is a significant sign of economic resurgence."Life - one of the growing number of trendy bars and restaurants in Bold Street - is one of the popular haunts for both the "techies" and the stars of the local soaps, Brookside and Hollyoaks.Meanwhile, penthouses are selling in the dockland renovated loft warehouses for &#163;500,000. Unlike London, however, you can still buy a three bedroom semi for between &#163;60,000 and &#163;130,000. A &#163;60m investment has also been announced for five 40-storey buildings along the city's river front."Obviously the new technology-related businesses are fast growing and a very important aspect of our regional economy," said John Burrows, the North-West Development Agency's business development director. The agency is now fielding 300 inquiries annually from large hi-tech firms, which are considering investing in the area and want to rationalise their European operations.Sonysaw the potential early and bought Psygnosis back in 1993 to support its Playstation business. The local firm's latest big project is updating the Formula One game for the Playstation2 which has already been released in Japan and is expected in the US and UK later this year.Now a queue has formed to follow Sony's Liverpool lead. The French games giantInfogrameshas also been drawn in to the hub of creativity and bought another gaming group,Ocean.Another of Europe's largest games developers,Rage Software, is also based on Merseyside - but has remained independent, with a full listing on the London stock market.The growth of hi-tech business has helped to offset the demise of manufacturing and port industries which drove unemployment in the region to almost 20% in the depths of the recession in the early 1990s. The latest figure is 9.5%. It has also lifted house prices, boosted new restaurants and bars - and left salesmen at glitzy car showrooms rubbing their hands with glee.Almost &#163;1bn in investment finance from the European Development Fund has contributed to Liverpool's economic revival and its increasing attractiveness to business.But Pete Fulwell, who lectures at the Liverpool Institute of Performing Arts and acts as a digital industry adviser, warned that new funding needed to be spent wisely for the region's success. "It's the beginning of something really important in the next five years in this area and we've got to get the next round of European Development Funding right. That will see us continue to grow in the next 50 years," he said. "Otherwise we will carry on the old depression and fault lines."While the north-west doesn't have London or Heathrow on its doorstop to lure the likes of Microsoft, the half-hour drive to Manchester's international airport is almost as adequate, says Burrows.The argument of a better quality of life goes a long way with many of the companies which have decided to locate in Liverpool and the surrounding area. Housing is cheaper than in the south-east, commuting is easy and there is a thriving cultural scene. And of course Liverpool is one of the few British cities apart from London with what amounts to a world brand.Amaze, an internet company that emerged from Liverpool University and which now employs 125 people, does not consider its location a disadvantage. Stuart Melhuish, chief executive of the web design and software company, admits Liverpool can be a difficult location for long-distance travel.But he adds: "We are in the e-business, location isn't necessarily an issue. The reality is with our client handling skills we can work with customers remotely." It boasts clients such as pharmaceutical group Warner Lambert, Saatchi and Saatchi and Volkswagen.Melhuish said a lot of Amaze's employees were graduates - and the company relied on the surrounding universities, which he listed as a major plus for the region. "Creativity is definitely one of the region's strengths," he said. "Finding a way to ensure that talent pool stays in the north-west is the difficult thing."The region has to entice more government and venture capital funding into the area - and ensure that support is provided for local entrepreneurial flair.One example of how the area can be bypassed was provided byBT. The initial roll-out ofADSL- the new technology that provides high-speed internet access using ordinary telephone lines - did not include Liverpool, even though it could be crucial to many local hi-tech firms.But many of the e-businesses in the city are serving world markets, rather than just the UK, says Melhuish: "Liverpool has a much greater chance of success in Europe than it does within the UK ... there are a lot of cities like Liverpool across Europe that are trying to produce sustainable economies."Even so, the area is still competing with centres like Cambridge and the south-east which have attracted large foreign investment and become powerful economic regions. The clusters of new businesses in Liverpool are small by comparison and need commitment and continued government backing to achieve anywhere near the growth of their counterparts in the south.
Chris Beech, a computer programmer seeking cash to develop his own business-to-business dot.com, is an interesting paradox.Unlike many of his peers scrambling to develop web sites and flaunting e-commerce strategies to catch the coat tails of the online gold rush, he says that he finds the whole money side of the dot.com boom vulgar."I do find the whole dot.com idea and getting rich vulgar," he offers earnestly.But still Beech, 25, admits the explosion of the internet means there has never been a better time to turn a dream into reality. That dream is one   of the reasons why the former maths student switched his university studies to science and technology.And he says Liverpool is a great place to kick start his venture. What drives the net community is intellectual capital - and Beech lists Liverpool as a breeding ground for web designers and programmers - calling it a "little village where everybody knows each other".As a Liverpudlian, Beech is determined to locate his internet venture in Liverpool. He looks at companies likeAmazeandPsygnosis, which had their genesis as one- and two-man operations, and sees that success on the international   stage "can be done here by local people".He admits that the biggest challenge in the dot.com world is not being located in England's north-west, but that so many other eager individuals have been drawn to the web and its potential riches."It is trying to stand out from that crowd that is the big thing," he said. "Otherwise it's perfectly feasible to run a business from Liverpool."Beech has proved this with his programming contracts both for clients in Britain and others further afield. He recently designed a database search system for a German gallery so that web users could find works by different artists   online. The opportunities extend further with the prospect that the gallery may later need an e-commerce operation developed.The other big challenge Beech outlines is the need for greater support by government and England's wider entrepreneurial community."We've got to learn to go with a good idea in this country."Beech is reluctant to discuss the detail of the business concept for which he is negotiating funding. Almost the only detail he will give away is his expectation that it will employ about 30 people within 18 months of its conception.Beech has spent the past six months fine tuning his business plan that has been presented to venture capitalists."There's no point in talking a lot about it unless I've got the funding," says Beech. There is also the concern of intellectual property, which can be hard to defend on the internet.Beech's confidence in his idea, however, is leading him to arrange a business trip to silicon valley - even without venture capital backing in place. His programming work has paid for the ticket and covered the hotel bills.The visit to California will also provide the opportunity to tap some potential customers, says Beech. He also intends to network and meet companies and individuals   with the technical expertise in the US that would support his business. The one drawback of Liverpool he does concede is that it may not have the deep pool of technical staff his business will need.Asked whether he might not consider pockets of south-east England sometimes referred to as budding silicon valleys, and you get a flash of Mersey wit. "It's rubbish. There's only one silicon valley. It's almost guilt by association."
Telecoms groupEricssonclaimed a world first yesterday, saying it would be rolling out its "Bluetooth" mobile phone - allowing customers to access their computers from their handset - this year.Although unveiled yesterday at simultaneous launch ceremonies in London and Singapore, Ericsson's new T36 mobile will not appear in shops until the final quarter of this   year and the Swedish company refused to give any details on its price.When it arrives, the T36 will work in tandem with the futuristic wireless handsfree Bluetooth headset. The company said it would also offer the Bluetooth home base, which will automatically detect the presence of a mobile phone and connect it to a land line when the user is at home, so saving on mobile phone bills and allowing the owner to   have just one phone for all their calls.There are high hopes in a range of applications for Bluetooth, which is being touted as "the fastest growing communications standard ever".Merrill Lynchpredicts that, by 2005, Bluetooth, a name derived from a King of Denmark who was famed for getting people to talk to each other, will be found in 1.7bn electronic devices around the globe.The technology's main selling point is that it does away with the jumble of wires and adaptors that many mobile phone users have to wrestle with. Instead, devices like phones, handsets, computers and peripherals communicate swiftly through the air, thanks to tiny modules measuring only a few centimetres long which are built into them.Its backers are claiming that the technology will eventually be found in devices ranging   from the PC to the fridge, but one of the first gadgets to get the Bluetooth treatment will be the mobile phone.Five companies - Ericsson,IBM,Intel,NokiaandToshiba- set up the Bluetooth special interest group in 1997. Further weight was added earlier this year, whenMicrosoft,3COM,LucentandMotorolajoined the group, which licences the technology to hardware and software manufacturers.Ericsson sees itself in pole   position to capitalise on the wireless technology. It began work on a short distance radio system in 1994 and donated its research to get the Bluetooth interest group off the ground."This is only the beginning," said Ericsson's vice president of marketing, Jam Ahrenbring. "The Bluetooth wireless technology has had an astonishing reception, with close to 2,000 companies signing up during only two years. We are   looking forward to seeing creative products and solutions from the other companies."The arrival of Bluetooth will spark yet another technology war in the mobile phone world. It is already absorbing the impact of WAP "wireless internet" services, higher-speed GPRS (General Packet Radio Service) services for business due to start this summer, and third generation mobile technology, which could bring video and other internet-style content to mobile screens by 2003.Futurologists predict Bluetooth technology will make it possible to integrate the standard into even the cheapest laptop and desktop computers, printers and other peripherals - as well as household devices like video recorders and hi-fis. Ericsson itself says up to 1bn Bluetooth devices will be sold annually by 2005, with prices falling as market penetration increases.
As well as being thief-friendly, convertibles weigh more than their hard-topped equivalents, use more petrol, cost more to insure, and are structually weaker so they handle like warm lettuce. But last year 43,653 people eschewed the modesty of tin roofs; and the market for wind-in-hair, flies-in-teeth motoring sits solidly at around 3% of new UK car sales.So why do people want them? Precisely for all these reasons, says automotive trend analyst Steven Jacobs. "It's a sybaritic thing - a   cabrio sends out a message that you can afford the implied costs. Even if the hood is up, it signals that you're a fun-loving driver."Jacobs' argument might explains why the only diesel drop-top you can buy in the UK is from Quantum, a maker of Ford-based kit-cars. Diesel Car magazine says its readers often ask why they can't buy a non-petrol cabrio. Spokesman Mike Orford explains: "Derv and open-topped driving are accepted on the continent - both Audi and VW sell the combination, but you'll never see it here because UK drivers have a bizarre   attitude. They automatically accept that cabrio driving is nothing to do with sensible, low-cost motoring."If you're undeterred and feel you must join the al fresco set, the good news is that the choices are getting more exotic and less mainstream. Along with Vauxhall, Mitsubishi, Nissan and Citro&euml;n, Ford no longer offers a hooded option and, while a few of its rivals muster soft-top derivatives of their own chief sellers, the options are as sexy as sequinned wellies. So if you're serious about your purchase, it's better to go for a purpose-built cabrio.
What do you drive?A 1970 Porsche 911T. Its official colour is antelope (a bit pretentious but funny) - milk chocolate brown in other words.What does it say about you?People say it suits me because I wear a lot of brown.What do you like about it?I got it at a good price because of its colour. I assume other buyers turned their noses up, but I think it's an edible colour. The only negative thing is that it has a dog-leg gearstick which took an age to learn.Why did you buy it?It's fast and has a great shape, a classic design - the best Porsche made.What kind of driver are you?Safe. When I was learning, my dad told me to assume everyone on the road was an idiot. That has stuck with me.Any bad habits?I keep a dictaphone between my legs while I write songs in the car. I suppose that's dangerous.Any driving test tales?I anticipated the emergency stop too soon, causing the examiner to hit his head on the windscreen. I failed.What was your first car?A Citro&euml;n 2CV. It burst into flames on the M4.Ever crashed / got a speeding ticket / got any points, etc?I've had lots of speeding tickets. I forgot the speed limit on an open road in   Florida. There was no one around except for the police hiding in the bushes. They pulled us over; when my passenger got out to explain, we suddenly had a gun pointing at us.Ever experienced road rage?I was being hassled by a flash Audi and when my passenger flicked the Vs we were chased. He cut across us to stop me, then kicked the passenger window in.Have you ever had sex in a car?I did once in the back of a van at a beach party. I didn't realise that the van was gradually going down a slope towards the bonfire. Everyone knew what I was up to!What music do you listen to on the road?Nothing. I love the sound of my engine too much.What's your dream car?I recently drove a Mercedes Pagoda 230SL with the roof off and was impressed.Who would be your dream passenger?Matt Dillon. I've always fancied him. I was staying in the same hotel as him once and bumped into him in the lift. He invited me out for a drink with his friends but I was too dumbfounded to go.Sarah Cracknell sings in Saint Etienne. Their new album Sound of Water is out now.
When you wake on Thursday 5 October next, you will find yourself living in a different country. An ancient bulwark of English law - the principle that someone is presumed innocent until proven guilty - will have been overturned. And that is just for starters. From that date also the police and security services will enjoy sweeping powers to snoop on your email traffic and web use without let or hindrance from the Commissioner for Data Protection.Every UK internet service provider (ISP) will have to install a black box which monitors all the data-traffic passing through its computers, hard-wired to a special centre currently being installed in MI5's London headquarters. This new mass surveillance facility is called the Government Technical Assistance Centre (GTAC). Who said Jack Straw had no sense of humour?The Regulation of Investigatory Powers (RIP) Bill which is now before the Lords gives the Home Secretary powers of interception and surveillance which would be the envy of the most draconian regime. In addition to encroaching on civil liberties, the same Bill will also drive hordes of e-commerce companies from Britain to countries like Ireland where their encryption keys - extended pin numbers allowing users to decipher jumbled data - will be protected from government prying. An administration which complains continually about making Britain 'the most e-friendly country in the world' by 2002 is busily making sure that exactly the opposite happens.How has this extraordinary state of affairs come about? Is it another manifestation of the cock-up theory of history, or are there more sinister forces at work? The answer is a bit of both. For some time, it has been obvious to Ministers and civil servants that British law needed updating to cope with the internet. In an era when online trading becomes ubiquitous, for example, some way has to be found of making 'digital signatures' legally valid. Accordingly, a special Cabinet Office unit headed by Professor Jim Norton set to work to devise a new legislative framework for the emerging world of e-commerce and online communications. The main result of his labour was the Electronic Commerce Bill.As that Bill went through its Parliamentary hoops, it became clear that some parts of it - mainly the sections dealing with data encryption, interception and surveillance - were so deeply flawed that they threatened to sink the Bill. Given the Government's desire to make headway on the e-commerce front, the problematic sections were eventually jettisoned and the Electronic Commerce Bill became law in 1999.It was a smart decision, but it left unresolved the problem of what to do about the encryption stuff. The DTI, smarting from its bruising at the hands of the computer scientists who had comprehensively shredded the original encryption proposals, wanted nothing more to do with it. Accordingly the poisoned chalice passed to the Home Office, which knows little of business and even less about the internet, but is endlessly attentive to the needs of the police, the security services and the Byzantine imperatives of official secrecy. The RIP Bill is the fruit of that secretive bureaucratic milieu.The official rationale for the legislation is that it is required to bring UK law into conformance with the European Convention on Human Rights. In the end, this will have to be tested in the   courts, but Straw's confidence is not shared by the Commons Trade &amp; Industry Select Committee which last October recommended that the Government publish a detailed analysis to substantiate its confidence that the Bill does not contravene the Convention. This the Government has so far declined to do.The Bill has four main parts. The first deals with the interception of communications. the second covers 'surveillance and covert human intelligence sources'. The third tackles encryption and the fourth covers the 'scrutiny of investigatory powers and of the functions of the intelligence services'. Parts I to III propose massive extensions of the state's powers to spy on its citizens while the fourth suggests a regulatory regime which seems laughably inadequate to anyone familiar with internet technology. All sections of the Bill have been heavily criticised by external experts and a small number of committed MPs, but the legislation has passed through   its Commons scrutiny with its central provisions intact.Part I gives the Home Secretary the power to issue a warrant requiring ISPs to intercept the communications of one or more of their subscribers. The problem is that the internet is not like the telephone system - where it  is technically feasible to tap into a particular individual's communications link. In order to monitor a person's internet traffic, you have to tap into all the traffic running through his or her ISP. As a result, the expectation is that Part I of the Bill will be implemented using so-called 'passive monitoring': ISPs will be required to install a 'black box' which will monitor all their data traffic and pass it to the GTAC centre.The news that henceforth all UK internet traffic will find its way to MI5 does not seem to have yet reached MPs, most of whom don't understand the technology and assume that the Home Office must know what it is doing. Defenders of the Bill point out that MI5 can only legally read the  content of communications for which specific warrants exist, which is true. But they fail to notice that the Bill affords no such protection to the  pattern of one's internet connections.In other words, while MI5 may need a warrant actually to read your email, many other people will have essentially unregulated access to logs of the websites you access, the pages you download, the addresses of those with whom you exchange email, the discussion groups to which you belong and the chat rooms you frequent - in short, a comprehensive record of what you do online and with whom. It will be interesting to see how this squares with the European Convention's requirements about privacy.It is Part III of the Bill, however, which is most likely to contravene the Convention. Section 46 gives the Home Secretary the power to compel the surrender of keys used to encrypt communications data. Failure to comply carries a prison sentence of two years. If someone cannot comply because they have lost or forgotten the key then  they have to prove that to the satisfaction of a court. In other words, the burden of proof is shifted from the prosecution to the defence - one is presumed guilty until proved innocent. And how do you prove that you have forgotten something?Even more oppressive is the Bill's creation of a secondary offence - revealing that you have been required to supply, or supplied, a decryption key - which carries an even stiffer penalty. Under the terms of the Bill, for example, the police could arrive at 4am and demand that you produce such a key. If you were unable to comply and were taken in for questioning, it would be a criminal offence punishable by five years' imprisonment to explain to your family why you were being dragged off.Civil liberties campaigners are predictably opposed to the RIP Bill. But it is also widely opposed by the business community. Even Professor Norton, the architect of the Government's e-commerce legislation, describes the proposals as 'a classic own goal' that will undermine the aim of making Britain a centre for e-commerce. Encryption is central to e-business, and many companies have contractual agreements with clients for whom they hold cryptographic keys. Under the RIP Bill they would be banned from revealing that they had surrendered a key and thereby compromised the client's security.'This is a clear case,' says Norton, 'of the futility of government treating internet policy as a national issue when what is needed is international agreement. A UK firm which handed over the key of a multinational client would be vulnerable to a compensation claim in an overseas court for compromising that client's global security. US businesses are not happy about that liability and will opt to work in countries like Ireland.'The most astonishing thing about . Straw's pre-emptive strike on civil liberties and e-commerce is that, to date, there has been almost no public discussion of it. The Ministers driving his Bill through Parliament concede that the powers they seek are sweeping, but argue that they can be trusted to apply   them reasonably and that in any case the powers are commensurate with the threat from online criminals, terrorists, paedophiles and pornographers. In the absence of proper safeguards, the first argument is absurd.As far as the second is concerned, nobody has yet produced any convincing empirical evidence that the supposed threats are more than the fantasies of security services and hysterical projections of some newspapers. The internet undoubtedly provides a conduit for criminal conversations and porno graphic transactions. But then so does the telephone system and the Royal Mail, and yet nobody proposes tapping every phone in the land or scanning every letter. A terrifying erosion in our liberties is being planned, yet the threat is largely ignored.Could it be that this collective passivity is because, for most citizens, the liberties that are being eroded lie in the future rather than the present? Most people do not currently encrypt their email, even though an unencrypted email is as vulnerable to snooping as an   ordinary postcard. But in five years' encryption will have become a necessity.Human nature being what it is, people will lose or forget their decryption keys - and some will find themselves attempting to convince a judge that they are not paedophiles feigning amnesia to qualify for a shorter sentence. Will they then remember Burke's warning that for evil to triumph it is necessary only for good men to do nothing? And will they wonder why they had not been more alarmed on the morning of 5 October 2000?Rest of the worldMost countries impose no restrictions on the use of encryption by their citizens. The exceptions tend to be authoritarian regimes such as those in Russia and China.IRELAND: New e-commerce Bill makes it illegal for government to access commercial cryptographic keys.FRANCE: The government has recently announced a new policy of totally relaxing controls on domestic use of encryption.US: No domestic controls on use of cryptography, though Washington looks enviously at the UK RIP bill.GERMANY: Has long been the European leader in opposing restrictions on citizens' use of encryption.Over the coming weeks The Observer will print a series of articles and opinion pieces on the proposed RIP Bill. If you wish to voice your opinion online you can do sohere. To find out more about the Bill seewww.fipr.org/rip/
Walking  into Ted Turner's office on the eve of the 20th birthday of his treasured news network CNN is a poignant experience. Cluttering every inch of wall space are the trophies of 40 years at the peak of the world's global media industry. But what's so chilling about these mementos is how far and how fast Turner is slipping from his glory days.On Turner's capacious desk is a motto: 'If you can't lead, follow or get out of the way.' And Turner is getting out of the way, or at least being elbowed aside by a gaggle of men in suits - the men from AOL and Time Warner, to which Turner sold his cable broadcasting empire just four years ago.Braving out the latest restructuring which sees Turner lose executive control of his broadcast networks he yells: 'When companies merge, people always get laid off, right. What's the big deal about that? And the merger hasn't gone through yet. So I've got my pink slip, right. But something could happen to the merger. My favourite song - I was listening to it today - is 'One Day At a Time, Sweet Jesus' . Just take one day at a time; there may not be a next week anyway, the way things are; it's very uncertain.'Exactly what is uncertain is left unspoken. But in what is being described by CNN insiders as a bloodless coup, Turner is being demoted in favour of AOL executives as the online service provider merges with Time Warner. News of the management restructuring - set to be operational once the $143 billion merger is finalised in the autumn - emerged this week at CNN's World Report, an   annual event that brings politicians and CNN heavyweights together for a week-long conference.The detail of the new management was given in a press release four weeks ago. But the news that Turner's only title once the merger is completed will be 'special advisor and vice-chairman'- a non-executive role he shares with at least one other suit - only appeared in the  Los Angeles Times a few days before.Gerald Levin, chief executive of AOL Time Warner, is frank. 'It's my responsibility to put in place a structure that maximises the tremendous talent that we have - most particularly in the case of Ted. What we're attempting to do, and Ted fully understands this, is to take his capability and give him a broader platform so that he can provide the kind of wisdom that's necessary in our company.'But here's the rub - and it comes from AOL Time Warner chairman Steve Case. 'He will play a bigger role on the overall strategy of the company. He was surprised by the speed of the decision. Gerry came and said here's a structure and suddenly a week or so later we announced and I think he was surprised by the pace of that. But he asked to play a broader role and that's the role he's going to play.'What Turner is left with is a whole lot of anecdotes. About how Fidel Castro gave him the idea for launching CNN International (the dictator was watching a pirated version of the American channel in Communist Cuba at the time); about how the start of the Gulf War in 1991 was 'unquestionably' CNN's finest moment; and about   how his obsessive hate for rival Rupert Murdoch has mellowed to a mild dislike. 'He's an easy person not to like. I don't hate him... I have hated him but, as Martin Luther King said, hate is a burden to bear.'In place of the fighting talk of recent times is an alarming acceptance of Murdoch's position in the world. 'I don't want to talk about Rupert today. I've said enough about Rupert to last a lifetime.'I just wish him the best of luck with his new young wife. I heard he had a mild case of cancer so I hope he gets healthy soon. My fingers are not crossed.'When it comes to his own media interests, Turner is already working at arm's length. Asked about accusations of news broadcasters dumbing down, Turner replies: 'There's always been some news media that try and exploit the dumbing down of news. And there's a lot of pressure because the dumber you are, a lot of times that will get a bigger audience.   And we're not immune from it. We ran a lot of stuff on OJ Simpson; we ran a lot of stuff on the death of Diana.'And then comes a story of how, earlier this week, he thought twice before intervening in the day-to-day editorial decision-making of CNN.'On CNN Headline News... the China trade bill being   approved was second and we led with something very small; maybe a school kid killed the teacher or something. I was just appalled. I almost called in, but I didn't - and an hour later they'd reversed the stories.' You get the feeling that, five years ago, Turner would have made that call.And the issue comes up again, as Turner is asked what his latest editorial con tribution to CNN was. 'Most recently I've asked them to do a major series of stories on the nuclear weapon situation because it's gone off people's radar... That's one of the stories recently but I don't do it all the time because CNN do a pretty good job of going out and digging up the stories.'Laudable in intent, but a world away from the strategic   synergy talk of the suits leading the AOL Time Warner.Looking ahead to his own place in the media of the future, he's equally sanguine about the news agenda 20 years from now. 'I hope we'll be doing what we're doing today,' he says. 'Reporting the news honestly and fairly with a strong emphasis on international news... I wish we were more accurate and better but you can always find things to   criticise. Generally I'm pretty pleased with it.'So how will he protect his beloved CNN? 'All you can do is the best that you can. It's one reason why I merged with Time Warner. Rupert Murdoch wanted to acquire CNN five years ago, 10 years ago. That's how I got to know him. And he was very charming.'But I studied what he stood for in journalism and Time was best. So I thought that merging with a company that had a history of strong journalistic integrity would be best.'There's no way you can prepare for every eventuality. Some bad person could take over Time Warner. I mean it could happen, but you have to go with the odds and you can't stay forever.'I couldn't stay here forever anyway. You get too old or you die. Crazy Horse, the great Indian chief, was fighting against American soldiers with guns and all he had was a bow and arrow. He said only the rocks live forever and that's right.'
Dairy produce can rarely have achieved so pioneering a place at the heart of the new economy. A fortnight ago, Sainsbury sourced its entire quarterly supply of economy mild cheddar using an internet auction.A process that normally takes several weeks was whittled down to four hours. The auction used, an online exchange for retailers set up by Sears, Carrefour and Sainsbury.The growth of industry-sponsored business-to-business (b2b) exchanges is accelerating. The automotive, airline, chemicals and textiles industries are already heading towards launching exchanges this year.All around the world competitor companies are joining forces to harness the net's transparency and accessibility to cut procurement costs, reduce inventories and broaden supply networks.The promise of b2b e-commerce is essentially that it can iron out inefficiencies in the supply chain. But there is also scope for buyers to get together to exert monopoly power in tight markets and force down supplier margins.B2b became a watchword for discerning internet investment during the market's exuberant peaks. A survey by PriceWaterhouseCoopers showed that investment in b2b internet applications in Britain is now, for the first time, bigger than in business-to-consumer (b2c).Using the internet in well-established businesses contrasts with the fickle world of business-to-consumer e-commerce, where factors such as 'sticky' page impressions, viral (word of mouth) marketing, content and brand strength are what drives stock market valuations of profitless and possibly revenue-free business models.But b2b does not require the savage marketing costs that are beginning to floor consumer-facing companies.B2b prospects have, however, fallen foul of statistical exuberance. The press releases announcing new industry exchanges compete to name the most staggering amount of business that might pass through the exchange.Analysts predicted that a trillion dollars of transactions would be conducted in online exchanges by 2002. But this does not say anything about the future prospects of b2b ventures. As Morgan Stanley pointed out in a recent market report, the New York stock exchange supported transactions worth $7.3 trillion in 1998 - but the profit they earned was just $101m.Far from being the 'next big thing', pure b2b companies, such as Ariba and Com merceOne, were affected by the recent market turmoil more than most, losing more than two-thirds of their market value since mid-March. Market jitters reflect doubts over exactly who will be the main beneficiaries of implementing b2b e-commerce.The large manufacturing industry exchanges - for example in the automotive business, where Ford, DaimlerChrysler and GM have joined forces - all make a point of prospects for flotation. The partners generally have equity stakes alongside a technology partner. The assumption is that if a large volume of b2b transactions happen on an exchange, it has intrinsic value.But prospects for revenue are limited - as the NYSE figures illustrate. Taking small percentages from these huge transactions may seem one revenue-raising possibility. But significant commissions would mean that users would lose any incentive to shift to online procurement. Exchanges are more likely to charge nothing at all to attract buyers and suppliers.Buyers appear to be the likely winners from the intro duction of these exchanges: they can make savings by improving coordination with suppliers and coaxing their margins down.After just six weeks of the GlobalNetXchange, Sainsbury has already seen benefits. 'We've seen some saving plus a broadening of our supply,' says Patrick McHugh, group e-commerce director. The auction for the cheese supply was open to invited companies only, with the   final decision on the basis of quality.Auctions will be a comparatively minor function for such exchanges, but they bring their own problems. How do you ensure quality standards are met, and what is to stop competing suppliers colluding to keep prices high?The key benefit of exchanges lies in integrating procurement with demand   forecasting, and exchanging information that could help to cut surplus inventory. In the European car industry alone, Morgan Stanley estimates there is the potential for saving $2,700 per car.But much of this benefit is old hat. A large chunk of internet b2b is souped-up supply chain management and enterprise resource planning. What's new is the ability for competitors to pool their purchasing to buy more cheaply.There are two types of purchase - direct and indirect. The distinction is crucial in overcoming regulatory hurdles. If competitors cooperate on components or supplies for resale they are likely to invite the attention of competition authorities. Inquiries from the US Department of Justice have already delayed the launch of the automotive industry exchange.At the moment the nascent exchanges are tiptoeing around the prospect of coming together to source direct supplies. Supermarkets talk of joining forces to order trolleys or bags, rather than their baked beans.It's not necessarily the buyers who will garner all the benefits of b2b. It depends on the market structure, says Professor Mohan Sawhney, Silicon Valley's leading b2b guru.Three-quarters of the world's supply of palladium - a vital ingredient in catalytic converters for car exhausts - comes from Russia, which could set up its own b2b exchange to supply the metal.'It is when the market is fragmented on both sides that a market-maker could capture the benefits of b2b,' says Sawhney.In a pre-emptive effort to appease competition authorities, the airline and automotive exchanges will be 'independently' run and managed.But Sawhney, who advises a number of exchanges, believes that the industry-sponsored exchange announcements are attempts to 'hijack liquidity' from more   nimble independents. Either way, the concept of an exchange being as valuable as many of the suppliers who use it is a new idea.It is based on the belief that value-added services can be sold alongside the goods themselves to facilitate transactions on an exchange.Sawhney says: 'There are other elements - quality consideration, supplier standards certification, and settlement - that broaden the scope of the offering, providing an end-to-end service.'Aside from legal challenges, the industry-sponsored exchanges will require cooperation between the strongest of competitors. It took the members of one large exchange six weeks to work out which company name would come first on the press release.And for the dairy industry? As price pressures increase, there will be a need to increase supply efficiency and reduce surplus inventory.So the next time a supermarket cashier registers a sale of economy mild cheddar, there will be a b2b e-commerce connection to a cow in Somerset.
