Following on from Keith's PS3 festive top 10 comes the Xbox 360 list.  Remember these are suggestions on what to buy this Christmas so the list is mainly focused on recent-ish releases. Anyway, let's go. In no particular order these are the Gamesblog Top 10 Xbox 360 games to buy this Christmas...Fifa 10/PES 2010Ah, the great football game debate. I really couldn't choose between them and which ever one you decide on your footy-loving 360 owner should be happy. Having said that there are some differences. Fifa is slower, more methodical and more realistic. It also has all the right teams and players, even if the likenesses are still scarily off at times. PES has better player likenesses and animations but more importantly plays a faster more fluid game on the pitch. Fifa has more online options, PES has more exciting goalmouth scrambles. I'd still go with PES if I really had to choose but this one is too close to call.Dragon Age: OriginsAgain, this was on Keith's PS3 list but it's too good for 360 owners to miss out on. This is an epic role-playing game that will appeal to patient gamers who want to get their teeth into something a little meatier than the normal shoot n' sport titles. Patience is key though – Dragon Age takes an, er, age to get going. With a text overload and occasionally ugly visuals Dragon Age may not seem an instant winner on Christmas Day.  But give it a chance to get going – around 5-10 hours (!) -  and you're likely get hooked and still be playing on New Years Day and beyond.Forza Motorsport 3One for the dads and uncles this. Forza is a serious motor sim that lets you fiddle with engines and tweak just about everything a petrolhead would want. The action is almost RPG like at times, with upgrades aplenty and even if you don't want to paint or tune your car there is always a reward waiting just around the corner. It looks fabulous too, while there are a host of excellent online features. Probably one for the boys this, but for the motor sport lover there is no better game on the 360.Modern Warfare 2The best selling game of the year and a must if you play online. Be warned though, beginners should prepare for a frustrating learning curve as better equipped foes – usually teenagers with time, and you, to kill – constantly take you down. Luckily then the advancement path is so finely honed that it isn't long until you are gaining both ranks and respect. If this sounds like too much hard work then the single-player story is hugely entertaining – albeit relatively brief - on its own. Such a shame about the airport level though. And just when I thought gaming had got over its teenage growth pains too.Xbox Live SubscriptionYes, it costs £40-odd pounds for a year and yes the PS3 and Wii are free to play online. But Live is streets ahead of them – although PS3 is catching up relatively quickly – and now offers Facebook, Twitter and live Sky TV content as well as a stack of downloadable games. But it is the online play elements which really make this worth the cash. Friends lists, cross-game chat, 1vs100 (see below). An offline 360 is only half a console.GyromancerAnd if you do get online then this is one of the best new releases you can download. Like the excellent Puzzle Quest before it, Gyromancer mixes "match 3" gameplay – think Bejeweled – with a hefty slab of role-playing (RPG) depth. This gives both context – there's a typically hokum story – and strategy to the puzzling. As you'd expect of a game created by Popcap and Square Enix this a lovely polished game that will suck away those post-Christmas lunch hours.Assassins Creed 2The setting – renaissance Italy – makes this worth a look alone. Luckily the game lives up to the premise. It takes a while to get going though. The controls – especially the combat – are occasionally clunky. But give it an hour and you're be sucked in by the roof leaping action and glorious visuals. Again, probably not one for all the family but if you can wrest the TV free from kids/grans/Only Fools reruns then you'll be hooked.Left for Dead 2Not one for the kids but this is an hilariously over-the-top online zombie-fest. Again, like most 360 games, it really comes alive online as you team up with friends to chainsaw your undead – or living, depending on which side you take – assailants. This sequel adds new weapons and levels but is not a huge advance on the original. That aside any 360 owner will appreciate the surprisingly deep action and probably bore you senseless with their war stories after.BorderlandsAgain online online play is key here. Grab some friends, create your character – disappointingly restricted to 4 preset templates – and hit the borderlands. The action goes like this. Get quest, shoot stuff, get new gun, cash in quest and repeat. Tedious in singleplayer Borderlands comes alive with friends. A confusing interface and repetitive action let things down but in short bursts this is fantastic.1 vs 100It's a live quiz show on your Xbox that lets you compete against thousands of other players at the same time. What could go wrong? Nothing really. Ok, to actually win a prize involves luck, guesswork and worryingly quick reflexes. But 1vs100 cleverly lets you compete against your friends too, which gives you an incentive to play on even if the prizes are seemingly unobtainable. Again, you'll need a Xbox Live subscription but this is perfect for all the family on Christmas Day.What do you think then? Any other recent 360 game that deserves a mention or need adding to the Christmas list?
Video games pioneer Nintendo is under further pressure after sales of its Wii console continue to slump, despite attempts to stimulate consumer interest with price cuts.American sales figures issued by the Japanese company yesterday suggested that it sold around 550,000 Wii systems during Thanksgiving week - including the notorious "Black Friday" bonanza that serves as a cornerstone for retailers in the run-up to Christmas.Although senior executives said that it was in a "good position", those figures are down more than 30% on the same time last year, when the company said it sold around 800,000 units.It is the latest blow to the Wii, which became the surprise leader in the lucrative video game market when it launched in 2006 with innovative motion-sensitive controllers and a variety of family-friendly titles. Although its success has proven a remarkable cash cow for its creators - the company spent several years struggling to keep up with demand -sales have wilted recently, with experts blaming a mixture of factors including the recession, customer apathy and saturation.It also marks a disappointing response to the Japanese games giant's decision to try and boost sales by ordering a price cut earlier this year, which saw it slash the cost of the console by $50 in America to $199.Sales figures for Britain are not known, butthe price of the Wii has remained static in the UK, with customers being offered a new bundle of games and accessories despite the fact that the wholesale price of the console was lowered.Nintendo's American sales chief Cammie Dunaway told the San Francisco Chronicle thatrecord sales last year made the drop almost inevitable- but that the machine remained a strong contender."I think going into the holidays, the Wii is in a very good position," she said. "It has an unbeatable combination of games, experience and unbeatable value, and that continues to put it to the top of people's wish list."
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; Police in Avon and Somerset haveconfirmed that they arrested a man for stealing people's accounts in the online game Runescape, marking one of the first cases of its kind in Britain.Graham Cluley has some good backgroundon the idea ofvirtual theft- something thatcan end in tragedy.&bull; Lots of chatter on the net about the apparent death of theCrunchPad- the touchscreen tablet web browsing device being put together under the umbrella of the TechCrunch blog empire. According to TC founder Michael Arrington, the device's future is likely to fall apart in a string of lawsuitsafter arguments over who was in control of the concept. The scheme drewplenty of detractorsin its short history (the accusation of vapourware was often levelled, and ultimately fulfilled) but Ross Rubin asks the pertinent question: why Arrington, a lawyer by training, would leave so much of the device's crucial elements stranded in a legal grey area. Phillip Torrone at Make Magazine, meanwhile, questions whether TechCrunchwill now put it out as a FOSS project.&bull; Each morning we try (where possible) to expand your mind, so here's today's food for thought: a talk from Harvard law profJonathan Zittrain(who recently published a book arguingthat gadgets could stifle online freedoms) about making human brainpower purchasable over the internet. The concept of crowdsourcing has been around for a while, of course,but in this hour-long talk he runs through a wide range of approaches and areas that this is being applied to- and expresses a number of concerns about how it's developing. I find it a really interesting subject area: anybody got their own examples to put forward?You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
FromCXO, an online magazine for chief execs and other "chief" things, comes this rather wonderful graphic. Small version here, but click it for the large one.There's also aninterview with John Linwood, the BBC's chief technology officer, by CXO.
A lot of people have talked to me over the last week about Wi-Fi (open and closed, i.e. password-protected) and the Digital Economy bill. The more I try to find answers, the more ludicrous it becomes. For instance, last week it turned out that apub owner was allegedly fined £8,000because someone downloaded copyright material over their open Wi-Fi system. Would that get worse or better if the Digital Economy bill passes in its present form?To illustrate, I'm going to pick my favourite example of a potentially worried wireless network provider: my mum.She doesn't understand or like the internet, refuses to even think about securing her Wi-Fi network. What is her legal status? What will she say if/when she receives warnings under the Digital Economy bill because someone has used her open Wi-Fi to download infringing files?Well, the bill contemplates that warnings can be sent only to "subscribers". These include alleged infringers, and those who have "allowed" others to use their access to the internet to allegedly infringe. That sounds a lot like it covers those who operate Wi-Fi networks (and is meant to). Later in the bill, however, a "subscriber" is defined as any person who "(a) receives the service under an agreement between the person and the provider of the service; and (b) does not receive it as a communications provider".This leaves two avenues of defence for my mum. One: she might say she was a "communications provider" and thus not a subscriber. This is at least arguable under the Communications Act 2003 definition of such, and might get her out of the bill (hurrah). But if my mum is not a poacher, is she a gamekeeper? If not a "subscriber", is she an "internet access provider"? The definition in the bill is that an ISP is someone who provides an "internet access service", itself defined as :"an electronic communications service that (a) is provided to a subscriber; (b) consists entirely or mainly of the provision of access to the internet; (c) includes the allocation of an IP address or IP addresses to the subscriber to enable that access".My mum may fit these conditions. (Does she "allocate" an IP address? Who knows? Certainly not my mum.) But is there an "agreement" between her and an unknown Wi-Fi piggybacker? My mum's Wi-Fi has no "I accept" box. "Agreement" is defined nowhere in the bill. But suppose my mum leaves her network unsecured due to ignorance – and the "subscriber"s laptop logs on to the nearest open Wi-Fi network automatically as he sits on the bench outside? In such circumstances, can there truly be "agreement"?Maybe not, which is good for my mum, but not so good for the government, because it drives a coach and horses through the intention of the bill, which is to ban open Wi-Fi so that it cannot be used as an excuse when (whenever that is) the opportunity comes to repel the unfounded allegations of infringement which generate the warnings. (How my mum could even start to know how to do this without legal aid – which will clearly not be available – is beyond me – but let's leave that for now too.)A hardened contract lawyer will already be muttering that in English law formation of contract is an objective not subjective matter. If my mum appears to extend a service of internet access, and a downloader appears to accept it, does it matter what they actually think? Isn't this objectively an "agreement"? The Department of Business, Innovation and Skills (DBIS), which is pushing the Digital Economy bill through, would probably like this argument, at least on first thoughts, because it plugs the gaps in the enforcement scheme. But it has big problems of its own. My mum would not be a subscriber, but she would be deemed an "ISP", which would mean she would be bound to comply with sending out of warnings to those users of her service whose IP addresses were passed to her by rightsholders, or else, er, face up to a £250,000 fine for non cooperation.Even DBIS may grind to a halt at this point. Not only is fining grannies a quarter of a million pounds for not being hip with the internet not going to go down well in Daily Mail land, but it would be impossible for my mum to pass the warnings on: although she may have unknowingly "allocated" her IP address to the "subscriber", she has no way of identifying those who have used her Wi-Fi, and no way to pass those warnings – and the legal responsibility - on.Let's try a different example. My mum is a dinosaur, let us say. She will be re-educated and her consciousness raised in the great Mandelson Digital Britain future. But the DEB is meant to be a business-friendly piece of legislation so presumably it will work fine for businesses – or will it? Let's think about a big solid business, like McDonalds. McDonalds have a nice well run, password protected Wi-Fi network.So do many public institutions, like the venerable British Library, which likes to assist scholars and patrons by providing such facilities. In both cases, the Wi-Fi supplier will probably be regarded as a communications provider and hence not a subscriber. In both cases, it is very easy to see this time that an "agreement" is explicitly made between the Wi-Fi service and the recipient.What happens this time if a passing user logs on, downloads infringing material and a warning is dispatched? McDonalds may cope because its Wi-Fi is provided by The Cloud, which can possibly cope with identifying which user is to get which warnings. It will be fiddly and expensive though and the cost of Wi-Fi to McDonalds would probably go up so much it would be uneconomic to supply. Bang goes a free service which has proved a public boon and a remarkably popular enticement to customers in the ongoing recession.But if we turn to the British Library, it really bites. The BL is not set up to be a forensic investigator; obliging it to act as one will be a fantastically resource intensive exercise for a public body providing a free service. There is also an issue of privacy and anonymity, something academic researchers are often touchy about. And again, if the BL refuse to comply – or more likely, simply says it can't – it is, at least in theory, subject to a fine up to £250,000.So we are back again to the death of public Wi-Fi, closed as well as open. Can anyone disprove this train of logic? Because really, I may be a lawyer, but I don't like it any more than you do.Lilian Edwards isprofessor of internet law at Sheffield UniversityUpdate: corrected- British Library is not open (caption); pub being fined is "alleged" as it would have been civil damages; corrected &copy; to (c) [error introduced by autocorrecting word processor]; minor grammar.
A court in Paris has fined eBay more than £1.5m for breaching an injunction that banned its users from buying or selling goods made by French luxury conglomerate Louis Vuitton.The €1.7m fine was awarded after the court found that eBay had not done enough to prevent the trade of goods made by LVMH, which owns exclusive brands including Louis Vuitton, Moet Hennessy, Givenchy and Christian Dior.The auction website had been banned from letting such sales take place following a 2008 court case - but the court found that there had since been more than 1,300 incidents in which users advertised cosmetics and perfume made by the company.LVMH said the award was a victory in its fight to retain the right to "selective distribution" - control over which outlets are able to sell its goods."This decision constitutes an important step in the fight against unlawful practices," said the company. "Selective distribution ensures the security and quality of products for consumers. It generates numerous jobs and contributes to the ongoing worldwide success of European luxury goods brands."In the belief that itshigh-value brands will be hurt if they can be resold online, LVMH has been waging an ongoing battle against internet retailers such as eBay for several years.Last year it registered a significant victory in which the auction website was ordered to pay£30m in damages.That ruling took place after it emerged that fake goods using LVMH's brands were being sold on eBay, but the ruling extended to preventing the sale of any of the company's goods on the site - regardless of whether they were pirated or not.In a statement, eBay said the fine was "disproportionate" and that it would be appealing the decision in higher courts, since it believes that the injunction constitutes an unfair restriction of trade."Today's outcome hurts consumers by preventing them from buying and selling authentic items online," said Alex von Schirmeister, the general manager of eBay in France. "The injunction is an abuse of 'selective distribution'. It effectively enforces restrictive distribution contracts, which is anti-competitive."The French conglomerate has alsotaken action against Google, which it says is acting illegally by selling search advertising using the company's trademarks.
More and more people may be going online, but the Holy Grail of getting people to pay for services such as newspaper articles, TV shows and music tracks on their computer is still a long way from being achieved, according to a new KPMG report.One in 11 people in the UK are currently spending money every month on online media – anything from news sites to music and movies – according to the KPMG Media and Entertainment Barometer, based on a YouGov survey. And, equally revealing, say industry experts, is the statistic that among those yet to spend money regularly online, only a further 11% will do so in the next 12 months.The small number of online payers is "surprising but not shocking" according to David Elms, head of media at KPMG. He admits that moving consumers towards paying for online content is "slower than the industry would like". Yet he thinks that constructing pay walls around high-quality content is the best strategy to help turn traditional media consumers into online buyers."A year ago when the recession started to bite, I was hoping that many media companies were going to make the online changes to their business models that they should have already done, for strategic reasons," said Elms. "My concern now is that many of them are still sitting on their hands.Those companies already working online need a broader sweep of revenues from that area and they also need to fully integrate their traditional income streams with the new ones."On a positive note, the survey also showed that the 18-24 age group were already the most likely to spend money on online media. "The fact that people in the younger age groups do seem more prepared than others to pay for content, is encouraging. But the challenge is undoubtedly large, and for the medium term at least, media companies need to be innovative and be fleet of foot to stay in the game," he says.The survey highlights TV, music and video content as making up over half (57%) of online purchases, while information media is just 7% of the total. The YouGov figures also revealed that the average online monthly spend is around £2 compared with anything from £5 to £20 for traditional media buyers of non-online items like newspapers, magazines and pay TV.The Association of Online Publishers says only about half its members are currently charging website visitors for some or all of their content, but major media owners are starting to bring in changes. While admitting in November to delays to its announced decision to put pay wall around the online sites of its newspapers, News Corporation's chief executive officer and chairman Rupert Murdoch still plans to extract subscriptions for his newspapers, including The Sun and the Times in the UK, as part of a plan to make up for falling revenues in the printed versions of the papers.And Murdoch is threatening to sue the BBC and Google if they do not remove stories sourced from his newspapers under so-called "fair use" rules, thereby encouraging consumers to pay for content online. Murdoch also indicated in an interview on Sky News Australia in mid-November that once his own pay methods are in place he will demand that Google and other search engine "news aggregators" remove News Corporation newspapers from their search results. He admitted that his papers benefit to some extent from the advertising around its freely available internet content – so "we will take that slowly," he added.Meanwhile, Emap Media – one of the UK's largest business-to-business publishers – also  announced in November that it would put up pay walls across all its trade titles, reversing its previous policy.Information media companies have the biggest challenge to encourage online revenues, according to the YouGov/KPMG study. Almost one in three respondents (28%) have reduced their purchases of print newspapers and magazines since the beginning of the recession, according to the survey, in favour of viewing free online content. Despite the propensity of consumers to search out "free" online information content, Tim Cain, head of research and insight at the Association of Online Publishers says his members are even looking at mobile phone payment models like Apple's iPhone App Store.  "Mobile apps is clearly one area where people are used to paying, so online publishers have to explore all avenues including these."Elms believes newspaper and magazine brands probably need to use their premium content to drive consumer payments. "For information media, consumers might pay for reading a particular commentator or writer. There will always be free information, but these media companies have to get started with their pay walls now," he insists.
As we move into the second decade of Google's existence and witness the fast rise of social networks like Facebook and Twitter, there are big questions for companies and marketers about the nature of their audiences and their consumers.Today the mantra is more about participating with audiences or users rather than simply broadcasting a programme or a marketing message to them. And it is also increasingly about portability, rather than just offering a piece of content like a song or a service such as a flight booking facility, that sits only on one device in one room of the house.In the digital world, getting people's attention means creating and accessing communities of interest – also known as digital tribes – that have shared interests over a particular subject or service.Members of digital tribes are defined by who they hang out with on the web or via their mobile devices; it is about what interests a person has, and what networks they communicate inside of. "Traditionally companies have targeted people by socioeconomic groupings, but that misses the point," says Tudor Aw, digital media partner at KPMG, which has recently identified some of the characteristics of digital tribes and how they function. "There is something about why a certain group of people are together around a certain service or interest that is much more powerful than simply their demographic group."David Docherty, chairman of the Digital Television Group, the digital standards body for the UK, says it is useful to identify these tribes, but only up to a point: "It's also important to remember that they are incredibly fickle. Tribes are nomadic; they don't stay put for long. So, 'goth culture' as a way to describe a tribe will work, but only up to a point."On the internet and connected mobile devices, the one-to-many model of television, radio, newspapers and even early internet websites is long gone and replaced by a many-to-many model. Strategies are shifting to embrace "communities of interest" – especially now that social networks such as Twitter and Facebook have grown to be so staggeringly popular in just the last couple of years.And because people belong to more than one community or digital tribe, this provides opportunities as well as challenges for marketers. The trick is to be able to identify which communities a person is attached to at any moment."Today's marketing imperative is to manage conversations about brands," says Richard Pinder, chief operating officer of Publicis Worldwide, a creative advertising agency that recently launched a branded entertainment division Publicis Entertainment that will bring brands into programme making. "We are seeing a switch from being a brand manager to being a brand guardian and influencer. That is a very different place to be sitting."In the networked world provided by the web, many companies and brands are starting to focus on the big social networks, led by Facebook, but including MySpace, big blogging sites like the Huffington Post and games communities like Addicting Games and the recently purchased Playfish, as a way to tap into the social zeitgeist around online communities. "The most exciting things right now are happening in the social communities, and the idea is to take advantage of those powerful communities, because that will make you that much more interesting to your users," says Mika Salmi, chairman of Habbo Hotel, a social networking site for teenagers.Salmi, who until recently was the president of global digital media for MTV Networks/Viacom, says that the rise of social networks has changed how companies interact with their users, viewers and customers. "The goal for companies used to be to use promotions and short clips to drive people back to the company's home website and keep them there," says Salmi. "Now it's about figuring out where people are and taking your content to them."To that end Habbo Hotel is close to launching on Facebook using the social network's popular Facebook Pages platform, which is essentially a free publishing platform that allows companies like Habbo to replicate the Habbo experience inside of the Facebook community of 300 million users globally. Some 1.3m brands have used the Facebook Pages platform since the service launched a year ago, including Nike, Adidas and ITV's X Factor. Says Salmi: "It's like having your embassy on foreign soil. You control the experience but you get access to all the Facebook users."
Digital media have been one of the few beneficiaries of the recession, with internet advertising outperforming television for the first time, according to a recent study from the Internet Advertising Bureau (IAB). Yet that milestone has not been enough to dispel a view that the measurement tools being used to analyse the £29bn global internet advertising spend are still not firing to full potential.Nowhere does this present more of a problem than when planning marketing and advertising campaigns. Television, press and radio have long enjoyed their own audience panel-driven measurement systems that have given marketers like-for-like data on which to base their buying decisions.But digital's lack of a similar trading currency makes marketers uneasy, not only because of the inability to compare similar data, but also because the standard measurement metrics of online display ads – CPC (cost-per-click) and CPM (cost-per-thousand) – offer little insight into how an audience has come to see an advert or the depth of their engagement with it.But all this may be about to change, with at least two new measurement schemes for digital on the cards.Early next year  Nielsen and The UK Online Measurement Company (UKOM) plan to launch a new Audience Planning System. The measurement tool consults a panel of 35,000 consumers and measures reach and frequency metrics using a similar panel-based method to the likes of BARB and RAJAR, respectively, the television and radio measurement equivalents. Meanwhile, rival Comscore is working on a "hybrid" approach, which combines "person-centric" data from its audience panels with site-centric data from website servers.All signs suggest that these new systems could mark a watershed moment for the industry, which has traditionally struggled to secure the total backing of brand advertisers. When the Joint Industry Committee for Internet Measurement Systems held a stakeholder summit last year, 90% of attendees thought that an industry planning currency would lead to increased spend online. "It will reduce confusion in the market and build trust, giving agencies confidence in the numbers on which they are basing their planning decisions," says Louise Ainsworth, managing director of Nielsen Online. "This confidence will attract more above-the-line brand advertising into a medium that has, so far, grown through direct sales and search."It should mark an exciting call to arms for marketers, allowing them to use new metrics, or tools, to drill down into audiences and affording deeper levels of granular detail on what they are doing and what they are looking for. Yet a recent Econsultancy study found that demographics remain the most popular form of targeting, with 64% of advertisers favouring this approach.Many believe it is only a matter of time before this will have to change. "Rather than addressing all ABC1 wealthy professionals, marketers are eventually going to have to wrestle with tougher questions, like how to target bankers that might have a penchant for going to Goth clubs on weekends," says Richard Costa-D'sa, social media director at i-level.John Owen, planning partner at digital agency Dare, also warns of becoming too wedded to traditional data approaches in a space that is increasingly fragmented and complex. "This incessant fixation with spots and space is symptomatic of old-fashioned thinking and increasingly irrelevant," he says. "Marketers need to start taking a multi-dimensional view of the world and earn audience engagement by exploiting the wider offerings rather than simply bulk-buying online display ads."Weblinkhttp://econsultancy.com/
So what is the next big thing in mobile? Why social mobile, of course. But what exactly is 'social mobile'? Beyond the obvious connection to a mobile device, typically a phone, but one that also includes portable games consoles such as the PS3; a social mobile application is basically where mobile meets Facebook.Mark Harding, digital media specialist at consultants KPMG, says: "In the not- too-distant past, mobile social media was basically a ringtone or a downloaded wallpaper.  But in the space of two to three years, the content itself has evolved to a place where the consumer can now truly create their own mobile identity — this can be as simple as Facebook for mobile or as complex your own mobile homepage, which you create through downloaded applications, your own selection of Twitter feeds, news feeds and the rest. The evolution of relevant content will be a huge enabler of future growth."Content makers, platform operators and advertisers are all jumping on the mobile social networking bandwagon because the predictions are that this is going to fast become a multibillion dollar market globally. However, there is some caution about which bets to make.The problem is that mobile's "next big thing" is hard to predict. SMS messaging was never considered by its designers to be a big deal until suddenly it was a very big deal. The same holds true for iPhone apps and Twitter – now these seem like obvious winners but the iPhone app was basically a Wap widget by another name and with much better usability. Twitter is very popular but there is no revenue model yet.The revenue models may still be developing but the growth potential is attracting lots of different players who are launching applications from gifting, to social gaming to simple increased community communication tools. The Mobile Entertainment Forum (MEF) recently forecast that mobile social networking activity would  grow at double-digit rates over the next three to five years, resulting in a potential mobile community base of 770 million people and revenue of $52 billion by 2012.Matthew Dicks, chief marketing officer at Flirtomatic, a mobile phone and web-based flirting application, sees entertainment and commercial partnerships as the key elements for success. A recent mobile-only gift of a virtual coupon to buy a pint of Strongbow cider was a huge success on Flirtomatic, he says. "Nearly 350,000 pints were gifted by our mobile users, and that's over 3,000% better than our equivalent PC gifting propositions."Flirtomatic sees mobile social applications as a mix of free and paid-for services. Flirtomatic offers a twist on the traditional dating social situation with the basic flirting app staying free but with revenue coming from add-on services – like virtual gifting of items like a rose or a "sensual message" – and, of course, advertising.Weblinkhttp://www.flirtomatic.com
Spanish television company Chello Multicanal's digital strategy changed radically when the company launched its first Apple iPhone application in April.The iPhone app, which was related to Chello's popular cooking channel Cocina TV, offers cooking instructions and recipes. In its first 20 days, some 60,000 people had downloaded the application, with 10% of them accessing it from outside of Spain. "It was a fantastic success from the beginning and was number one in the App Store for 15 consecutive days in Spain," says Eduardo Zulueta, managing director of Chello Multicanal. "That's huge. We didn't believe it was going to work but now we are working on making all our 5,000 recipes available, each with an associated video."To give this some perspective, a year ago Chello Multicanal was getting about 110,000 unique visitors a month to its Cocina TV website. The company thinks this will increase to 200,000 by the end of this year, driven largely by the success of the iPhone app.The app attracted positive reviews on tech blogs and gastronomy websites in Spain, adding traffic to the website. From this month, users will be able to upload their own recipes and pictures directly from their iPhone to the webpage. In October almost 150,000 videos were viewed from the app."Right now we are mainly a TV operation but we are looking to strengthen the brand and the channels and we believe there is a business on the web and iPhone – we just don't yet know when the pay model will develop," says Zulueta. "We are looking at sponsorship, but it is trial and error. What I will say is we have been extremely surprised by the uptake and the power of word of mouth."Chello Multicanal is considering a hybrid model where people might get some cooking videos for free but would then pay to get access to all the cooking videos. The company is also looking at creating a shopping list function but admits that it will take time to convert all the files and recipes into the proper format for the iPhone. "There is a conversion process that has to be done and investments will have to be made," says Zulueta. "We think it could be revenue-generating but we have to do a little more work."Two years ago Chello Multicanal had no digital or web people on staff. It now has six employees (of a total 150 of staff) dedicated to digital projects. Chello Multicanal, which is owned by Liberty Global, an international cable TV and channel owner, operates eight TV channels in Spain and Portugal. Zulueta says the next push is to create an iPhone app for its house and gardening channel De Casa. "In the context of shrinking TV budgets and revenues this is one area that is growing quickly," he says.Weblinkwww.canalcocina.es
Before the launch of Apple's iPhone, most advertisers and marketers were loath to tread in the mobile space, many still carrying the painful memories of mobile marketing as sponsored call time, clunky Wap sites and irritating text-to-win SMS messages.These perceptions were fostered at the turn of the century, when the auction of 3G licences to phone operators came with the promise of a new dawn for mobile content. Buoyed by the prospect of platforms with TV and video calling, new services were hurried through before the bulk of handsets were ready to host them."Our transition into 3G was blighted by unreliable kit, foggy coverage and extortionate data prices," recalls Brad Fairhead, partner at digital consultancy Hyper Happen. "The standard of content was appalling and brands were quickly forced to retreat into wallpaper and ringtones."Thankfully those perceptions are starting to wane. The arrival of Apple's iPhone in 2007 signalled something of a Eureka moment, breathing new life into the sector and forcing the industry to grow up. With around 34m units sold since launch, iPhone's success has paved the way for a new generation of smartphones – handsets that combine internet services with unlimited data plans – and led to A convergence of mobile and laptop technology. So popular has uptake been that Wireless Expertise, a market research firm, estimates that even as the overall sale of mobile handsets is forecast to be down this year, because of the recession, smartphone sales are growing, and are set to soar from 165m handsets sold this year to 423m in 2013.Shaken into life by the popularity of the iPhone, Apple's competitors are snapping at its heels. They include Nokia – still the dominant player in the market – with its N900 and Palm's Palm Pre. Dell and Google are working on their rival to Apple's "cool" handset, while development platforms such as Google's Android and the Nokia-headed Symbian consortium are all fighting to own part of the future. In an interesting sign of things to come, research agency Gartner predicts that Google's Android will overtake the iPhone by 2012, with forecasted sales of nearly 500m phones.With better, more consumer-friendly handsets, the traditional frustrations with mobile media are fading. Video has historically struggled to engage mainstream audiences. Now with built-in Wi-Fi functions and unlimited data plans, uptake is growing. Nielsen reckons that one-fifth of people in the UK now use their handset to browse the web. Content providers are also cashing in on the gold rush. ITV1, Channel 4 and Five now offer bundled services for £3 per month through Vodafone 360, the mobile operator's recently launched answer to the iPhone's App Store, that already has 100,000 available 'applications' or content widgets that are being downloaded in droves.Meanwhile, Sky offers three mobile TV packages on phones, including 24-7 Football, a joint venture between News International, Sky Sports, ESPN and Sky News that can be viewed on any 3G mobile for £6 a month. "Live TV via mobile has been our most popular service to date," says Emma Lloyd, business development director at Sky, which sees mobile as [a] way to extend the reach of their online audiences, while "building as many new advocates of Sky as possible".But is it still feasible to charge? Unlike internet audiences, mobile users are comparatively comfortable with paying for content provided it is relevant and the billing mechanism is hassle-free. Apple's micropayment model has demonstrated this. "Customers are still willing to pay for dedicated services that take the time and effort out of searching the web, and are tailored to work immediately on their mobile platform," argues Lee Epting, director of branded content at Vodafone. But other observers expect subscription models to be challenged as advertisers make further inroads into sponsored content and branded applications, effectively picking up the tab."For the first time, companies are truly in the position to create meaningful, emotional connections with users," says Chris Bourke, managing director of mobile media agency Mobext. "We have seen a huge shift towards full-scale brand engagement where consumers will happily spend time with brands in the mobile space in return for relevant content or rich experiences."Nowhere is this more apparent than in the world of apps and widgets. Since Apple opened its App Store last year, the phenomenal take-up has offered a plethora of content – from cash-machine locators to pint glass simulators – at the touch of a button. But it is not just consumers that stand to benefit. Rather than paying through the nose to bombard their audience with interruptive ads, brands can invest in creating "rich widgets" that, if compelling enough, will travel like wildfire among their target audience and promote deeper brand engagement. Barclaycard, Carling and Nike are among the companies with free iPhone apps that relate directly to the products they offer.Applications are disrupting the traditional dynamic between mobile firms and consumers, taking the control of content away from handset providers and operators and putting it into the hands of independent software developers and consumers.For handset manufacturers like Nokia, the changing times have led the leading mobile phone maker to expand into content as a way to future-proof its business. Nokia's Ovi – its recently revamped mobile content portfolio – offers an alternative model to Apple's App Store. Meanwhile, Vodafone's new Vodafone 360 content package is based on the W3C Standard code, a move the company says makes it more accessible to application developers than Apple's licence-based system.As smartphone technology develops, particularly with added GPS technology, so do the options for content development and advertising delivery. "What we know is that people are interested in advertising and promotional material that is relevant to their specific location, which means that it has contextual relevance," says Mark Selby, vice-president of industry collaborations at Nokia. "That's good for the advertiser and for the consumer."O2 has experimented in this area with a location-based mobile marketing campaign for Fitness First that was specifically targeted at health fans living in specific postcodes near its gyms.With Apple and Google and all the mobile phone operators as well as handset makers eager to cash in on mobile media, the competition is fierce and expectations are high. Firms that make lofty promises must be sure to keep them because consumers, now spoiled for choice, are unlikely to tolerate unmet expectations a second time around.
There may be a lot of chatter on YouTube about amateur videos, but the amount of professionally produced TV and film that is coming online is growing fast.Market research company ComScore's data shows that in the US in September 2009, some 168m internet users watched a record 26bn videos online and an increasing proportion of that growth is in professionally made TV and films. Online video viewing in the UK is also on the rise, with one in three UK internet users now watching TV shows or films over the net, according to the regulator Ofcom.But while the growth of online TV viewing is soaring, it is less clear how best to make online video pay.The revenue models used to create an income from video online currently fall into one of three categories. The first is catch-up TV, for seeing shows online that have recently aired on TV. The BBC offers this through its popular BBC iPlayer service, without advertising or any form of payment. Commercial broadcasters such as ITV and Channel 4 also offer catch-up TV on their own sites, and on some other online sites, but with advertising attached to it.Then there is paid-for online TV, which broadly splits into two approaches: making content available either through subscription, like LoveFilm's model; or on a pay-as-you-go basis, where viewers are charged show by show. Five, for example, charges per episode for online viewing of the hit forensic science series CSI.The third model is the "hybrid' approach, typified by a UK site called Blinkbox, which offers free and paid-for content and generates revenue from downloads, rental income and also from selling ads.The free  model is the most widely established model because it is the approach that broadcasters and audiences are most familiar with. Online aggregator sites such as Hulu.com, a site in the US founded by News Corp and NBC Universal, also use advertising. Hulu, which is looking to launch a UK version of its site next year, recently announced that it plans to add subscription in the near future. "I think a free model is a very difficult way to capture the value of our content," Chase Carey, News Corp's deputy chairman told a conference in the US in September."Advertising around online video is still a young business and, as such, driven by novelty and scarcity," says Screen Digest senior analyst Dan Cryan. "This is why we are seeing broadcasters selling more than 90% of their online inventory at prices that exceed broadcast equivalents."The big question is what happens as broadcasters' online reach grows?Channel 4's recent syndication deal with YouTube, which now hosts the broadcasters' full catch-up TV service, has significantly expanded Channel 4's online advertising inventory because the YouTube audience is so big.YouTube head of partnerships Patrick Walker says he is confident there is sufficient advertiser interest to support TV shows online. "Ad money has always followed audiences, and audiences for online video are growing fast," he says. Cryan, however, is not so sure. The effect on the price advertisers are willing to pay once scarcity and novelty are no longer an issue "remains to be seen," he says.Persuading consumers to pay for video content comes with challenges of its own. In the UK the success of the BBC iPlayer, which now accounts for some 40% of UK long-form video viewing online, makes it difficult for other broadcasters to charge people to watch online TV programmes.According to LoveFilm  chief executive  Simon Calver, iPlayer's free proposition has reinforced consumer expectations that online video should be free. "A purely pay-per-transaction service would struggle in the current market, because people are more resistant to paying for content when lots of content is available free," he says. "However, we have found that a subscription model like we have at LoveFilm is not a barrier to usage — in fact we find once people subscribe they consume more."The dust has not yet settled on the business models for online programming, but Claire Tavernier, vice-president of the  "FMX" department responsible for new technology at Fremantle Media, insists that "advertising alone" will not fund online content in the future."We are experimenting with all ways of providing content, including micropayments (typically of less than £1) for some programmes," says Tavernier. In Australia, Fremantle Media offers post-broadcast episodes of its series Neighbours online with advertising, while in Germany the producer has charged a small fee if viewers want to watch one of its shows before it is broadcast. Fremantle has also experimented with offering online viewers a seasonal subscription to one series of a particular show."Given our experiences so far, we expect to see revenue models for online video naturally migrate towards hybrid ones – much as is already the case offline, where there is free-to-air, subscription and on-demand TV that already co-exists," Tavernier explains. "Certain programmes will be suitable for pay per view, others for ad-funding or sponsorship … because of this, no single model will prevail."Blinkbox chief executive  Michael Comish readily endorses this: "The best model for online video must be a combination" of ad-funded and paid for revenue.The future migration of video from the PC to the TV promised by services like the BBC's Project Canvas will further boost reach and, in turn, the potential viability for both ad-funded and paid-for revenue. You need both, however, to maximise the potential of each. Says Comish: "Free content helps build access and prevent piracy, but to be successful you must establish a paid-for offering where you can."
Social media networks are recognising the financial benefits that better-targeted online display ads are set to play for other websites, so they have been sharpening up their own offerings.MySpace's 'HyperTargeting' tool takes users' personal profile data and allows advertisers to target them by demographics and interests, while Facebook is working with Nielsen to focus the quality of its advertising by asking its users to rate the relevancy of display ads that appear on their profiles.Stefan Bardega, managing partner at Mediacom, says: "Increasingly communities are self-selecting in the digital space. Brands have a choice of either targeting those pre-existing groups or provide the infrastructure to create those kind of communities. It is there where they stand to benefit from the most meaningful brand engagement."One such example is Dell. The computer company has built its own community online, IdeaStorm, which is a virtual forum where users can submit ideas to the company and be part of that product development. "It helps Dell to create deeper relationships with their advocates as well obtain ideas that feed into product development," Bardega explains.Behavioural targeting of adverts is clearly on the rise, with Vauxhall and Lufthansa among the brands to have recently targeted users based on their search and browsing habits. And it is getting increasingly more sophisticated. "Advanced behavioural targeting allows networks to analyse the linkage between different product categories to optimise campaigns," explains Guy Phillipson, chief executive of the Internet Advertising Bureau. "So if we have audiences that have previously looked at historical houses online, a vast number of them could be predisposed to ads for gardening equipment."There is also a behavioural targeting practice known as retargeting, essentially a way of reaching audiences who may have been interrupted when they visit a site. The UK's largest advertiser, the government's Central Office of Information (COI) used re-targeting in a campaign for the Department of Health to help people quit smoking. Users who did not go further than the site's landing page were retargeted with the stop smoking ads, delivering a 50 % uplift in registrations.Despite the work on targeting for display adverts, it is search advertising that remains one of the most popular forms of targeting, and Google's £450 million purchase of mobile phone media network Admob in early November signals an intent to access audiences in the mobile world as well. Google's flagship product, Adsense, targets consumers clicking their way through the internet, providing increasingly tailored ads at each stage of a user's journey."Of course this is never going to give advertisers generic brand fame, which is still more the role of video advertising or online display ads," admits Bruce Daisley, head of UK display at Google. "But it almost certainly ensures that the audiences that do click through, however small, are always entirely relevant."Weblinkshttp://www.ideastorm.com/https://www.google.com/adsense
Moving your business into the online world is enticing, and is becoming increasingly necessary for most companies. But choosing the most appropriate way to set up online, and make money at it, is at best a balancing act.For media and entertainment content owners, online strategies largely began as marketing and promotional extensions of their offline business. But increasingly, companies are expanding their virtual presence to capture new audiences and new revenues as well.Part of the balancing act is identifying the most effective way to leverage offline resources already in place and take advantage of technology to keep costs down. Once some of these cost issues are sorted then the questions change about how best to make money online."The key is not to invest too much up front," says Chris Woodland, head of telecoms, media and technology strategy at KPMG. "Hosting and bandwidth resources, for example, can be bought on a variable basis — according to uptake on a monthly basis. Other assets — customer relationship management systems, for example — can be bought the same way, too."Technical services, however, are only one part of the total cost of setting up a business online. Staff and office costs must also be taken into account, as well as the marketing investment required to drive traffic to the site.Faisal Galaria, the global head of business development for Spotify, an online music service that claims 2.7 million users in the UK, says: "Day-to-day running costs for Spotify are relatively low thanks to a staff of just 100 and an emphasis on word-of-mouth marketing." But Galaria says the big cost for Spotify is in the content. "Content costs — the cost of the music — must be covered whether people listen or not."And these costs are not insubstantial. In fact, according to a recent Guardian blog, Spotify may be paying as much as £9m to £18m per month to the record labels in music licensing costs. This is making Spotify's free, ad-funded music streaming model a difficult one to scale, according to observers. Spotify has added pay models, including an ad-free day pass for 99p and a premium, ad-free service for £9.99 per month, but earlier in November Spotify chief executive Daniel Ek admitted that the planned US launch of Spotify had been delayed, reportedly because US labels are concerned about how the free, ad-supported streaming model will work there.Spotify has already put some brakes on its growth to slow down free streaming by allowing new users to sign up to the free service only when invited by an existing user. This limits Spotify's ad inventory and streaming costs, which makes it easier both to manage at current staffing levels, maintain its premium value and limit its streaming bills. Then Spotify works to upgrade their free users to a premium subscription service.Newspapers and magazinesWhere Spotify has to license its music tracks, newspaper and magazine publishers are moving toward integrated, multimedia content creation — an approach typified by the Daily Telegraph where a single, multimedia newsroom generates print, TV, audio and digital content for different platforms – a far cry from the days of simply putting adverts on a printed page around stories. A similar approach is also evolving at TV production companies. For example, RTL Group-owned Fremantle Media, the maker of the TV shows X Factor and The Bill, also creates exclusive online content, games, quizzes and chat facilities associated with the shows.For Simon Calver, chief executive of LoveFilm, the DVD rental company part owned by Amazon, the key is adding value to the online offering. "People subscribe to LoveFilm because we have 70,000 titles.  People want flexibility so you have to offer choice," he explains.Identifying the added value an online business offers is essential to finding the revenue model best suited to covering costs and generating a healthy margin. "When dealing with a third-party content owner, an online aggregator must be clear about its unique selling proposition and target market," says Woodland of KPMG.  "It must understand what it can offer partners and consumers in terms of value to ensure sufficient revenue is generated."Users place different value on different types of content. They are more likely to pay a premium for in-depth analysis, for example, but are less willing to pay for the news, which online becomes a commodity very quickly. But offering content online ahead of a TV broadcast or a print publication can add value: the attractiveness lies as much in the timing (in this case, getting it early) as in the quality of the report.In October, The Economist's online business introduced a pay wall for archive content more than 90 days old and restricted access to its popular "This week's print edition" feature to online and print edition subscribers only. "We don't see value in charging for an individual piece of content, but we do for the services or added value we provide," says Ben Edwards, publisher of economist.com. "The opportunity to charge for individual articles is very small. There is far greater scope, however, in charging for packages, tools, services and functionality."In the light of this, Edwards is now assessing the future potential of introducing a paid-for element to its global, online public discussion forum, Economist Debates. "As the experience matures, you could have a free public tier, then private paying tiers (with) upscaling (users) towards greater depths of interaction and engagement," he says. "The basic experience needs to be free, though, because conversations happen all over the internet and we want to be part of that wide, public online debate."Weblinkhttp://www.guardian.co.uk/technology/blog/2009/oct/08/we7-spotify-music-licensing-figures
What will people pay for online? The received wisdom is not very much, if anything at all. But there are beginning to be chinks in the "no-pay" armour, led by better-targeted services like Apple's iTunes and paid-for iPhone apps.But for media companies especially, there is still no guaranteed business model for making money from their content, be it music, video or information. Look at the newspaper business, which after embracing the free, ad-supported model online is now putting pay walls in place. The former proponent of free news online, Rupert Murdoch, now proposes that his News Corporation introduce pay walls for all of his papers – including The Sun and The Times – to be in place sometime next year, essentially following a model he inherited from Dow Jones when he purchased the Wall Street Journal.Apple's iTunes has proved that some people do pay for music, and some will watch an advertisement before seeing an online video. And witness the success of online TV site hulu.com in the US, which offers TV shows from the biggest broadcasters online supported by advertisements.But moving online users accustomed to "free" access is not proving easy. And there is a big gap between the amount of money being earned online versus offline. How that gap is going to be filled is still unclear. "For a lot of legacy media companies it's a question of how quickly they are willing to move from the old model to the new, digital model, because for most of them it means a significant drop in revenues – at least initially," says Tudor Aw, media partner at KPMG.The most pertinent advice seems to be: build a large audience of users with a free-access principle supported by advertising and sponsorship and then find ways to charge for added-value services.This is what online music service Spotify is all about. The music website acts like a sort of online radio station, offering "free" music if users listen to advertisements. Spotify chief executive Daniel Ek says that the plan is to move online music lovers away from pirated music into a "legal environment" as a first step. "Younger users, especially, are used to downloading illegal content, and they are comfortable with sharing content with their friends," says Ek. "They are happy to spend $10 a month on World of Warcraft (the online game) but they won't spend anything at all on music unless it is a concert ticket or something unique."The key to how much can might be charged users is directly linked to how attractive, accessible and relevant the product or service is to a particular audience, or digital tribe. In fact, KPMG has identified twenty attributes that the consultancy calls "digital value propositions" that include attributes such as "compelling content", "convenience", "choice", etc.In the case of Spotify, Ek believes that he will only make Spotify's business model work if he appeals his users by packaging a good online music experience, supported by advertising, combined with unique paid-for products and services like Spotify's premium, ad-free subscription, plus other paid-for items, including tickets to live concerts and special CD sets. ". "If you look at the two sides of my business in isolation, the ad-supported side and the subscription or premium side, they don't work. That's because the [average] revenue per user (ARPU) is high enough on the subscription side, but there is not enough of the ad-supported side, where there is a lot of traffic but not enough revenue," explains Ek. "Only [by combining the two] and adding ticketing and other things can you get the volume as well as the revenues."A big part of creating enough revenue is creating an attractive online proposition and putting it where users are congregating. ITV's The X Factor is a prime example. On television, the talent show attracts upwards of 14 million viewers, but now it is also attracting a substantial online audience – principally on Facebook and Twitter. Nearly 865,000 Facebook users have become fans of X Factor on the social network site and the number is expected to hit 1 million by the end of the series. All of these fans receive the updated X Factor content in their Facebook live feeds, and some 30,000 Facebook fans have also added an application to say which contestant they support. ITV has also created a "supporter" called Twibbon on Twitter, which has been downloaded on to 11,000  Twitter profile pictures. The company says this exposes the X Factor brand to around 840,000 Twitter users."We are taking a lesson from Facebook and going for scale," says Ben Ayers, social media manager at ITV.com. "Rather than obsessing on making money from fans we should obsess about building the relationship and building scale. That's the way agile web businesses work, and that is a lesson we should learn. I know the end game is to make money. But as we get to know our fans we will learn more about what they want."Meanwhile, advertising through big search engines and online advertising suppliers such as Google is also getting more sophisticated, both on the web and on mobile phones, with better tracking and targeting tools that deliver more relevant adverts – which brands are willing to pay more for."The key to monetisation is customer insight," says Jay Fulcher,chief executive  of Ooyala, a service that manages online video streaming and counts Arsenal football club as a client. "We have built an engine that tracks how consumers interact with content so we can personalise their experience and target the ads."Google and Channel 4 in the UK are hoping to capitalise on a recent deal that will put all the broadcaster's TV shows on Google once they have aired on the TV, with Channel 4 responsible for selling the advertising using Google's highly developed web analytics.Meanwhile, FremantleMedia is exploring sponsorship deals to pay for creating original programming for the web. A recent online drama called Freak had more than 1m views on MySpace, and was sponsored by Red Bull and Pearl , a feminine hygiene product. The community for the drama was very active, with more than 9,000 original music tracks being submitted by MySpace users for use in the drama. "This wasn't like a sponsored bumper on TV, it  – it was about social engagement with the audience," says Claire Tavernier, senior executive vice-president of FMX Worldwide, the digital unit of FremantleMedia. The drama, about a teenage girl who feels sheis a social outcast fits well with the target audience for Red Bull, which is seen as edgy, young and about taking risks.Tavernier admits that Freak will not be a "significant contributor" to FremantleMedia's profit, but that the brands were pleased, as was MySpace. "This was a good learning experience, but I am sure  there won't be enough funding from sponsorship to fund a lot of online content creation," says Tavernier. "It will have to be a mix of subscription and micropayments and free with ads and sponsors. That is the mixed business model that we all should aim for."Weblinks:http://www.facebook.com/apps/application.php?id=163659727040http://twibbon.com/thexfactorhttp://vids.myspace.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=vids.individual&amp;videoid=60490871
Strictly Social — a social networking entertainment add-on for TV viewers of the hugely popular BBC dance show — is neither the first online programme application of its kind on the BBC nor will it be the last, but it has pioneered some new ground in terms of live audience interaction.The BBC began experimenting with live social media links with its latest series of The Apprentice earlier this year. Viewers of the show could watch The Apprentice live while, at the same time, visit the show's micro website and predict which candidate was for the chop as each episode unfolded. This year's Strictly Come Dancing series – which can be viewed live on the BBC website – has taken this type of interaction a stage further. The Strictly Social website allows fans to predict judges' scores, post their text comments in a live chat box, answer quiz questions about the show and make real-time comments like "wow" or "boo" in a reaction box that aggregates all the reactions and presents a picture of what the audience is thinking."As far as we're concerned now, social media is part of what people do everyday and social viewing is part of our wider strategy for entertainment," says Jo Twist, BBC multi-platform commissioner for entertainment and BBC Switch. Like others in the entertainment space, Twist is focusing on the "fan" element to drive interaction."The word 'fan' is important when you think about applying social media tactics," says Twist. "Shows with large fan bases – like The Apprentice and Strictly — are obviously those where social media should be linked to programming; we want to extend what viewers naturally do when they watch each show."Twist wants the Strictly Social application to add a playful element for the viewers, but not detract from watching the show. More elements to the online link are being added during the series, including having professional dancers deliver live comments in a chat room. Twist believes that adding social media applications on a show that is broadly popular, like Strictly, can help improve digital literacy for BBC viewers overall."The older traditional TV audience is not all on Twitter or Facebook, but they might want to do something like Strictly Social which is part of their normal sofa experience," says Twist.
The music business has been rocked by online piracy but new, legitimate music sites are starting to develop, ranging from Apple's iTunes, which charges per song or per album, to Spotify, a free music service supported by advertising.Given the subscription model that underpins its flagship pay TV business, Sky's decision to offer its own online music service Sky Songs for an additional subscription fee was perhaps unsurprising.Sky business development director Neil Martin says: "The benefit of subscription is that a consumer can go in at any time and consume as much content as they want." Over time Sky plans for its new music service to build revenue through advertising and transactions in the same way Sky has done with its pay TV platform. The subscription is the centrepiece with a variety of other revenue-generating opportunities added on. "The relationship we build through subscription can be used to create an invaluable dialogue both to promote new products and gather customer feedback to further improve the service," says Martin.Sky Songs, which launched on October 19, offers users access to over 4m tracks for streaming and download from the four big music labels: Universal, Warner, EMI, Sony as well as a range of independent labels. Subscribers can choose from one of two packages — either accessing unlimited streaming plus an opportunity to download one standard album or ten songs for £6.49 each month, or unlimited streaming plus either one extended (or double) album or 15 songs for £7.99 each month.The starting point, says Martin, was to identify the right product for the digital music market that would both meet consumer demands and play to Sky's strengths: "We identified flaws in other services — not so much to do with their business models, but with the content," says Martin. Sky also realised that "an ownership component is key" because people want to own the tracks not just rent them. The prices also have to be in line with the market, not higher. Sky Songs also allows customers to move the tracks they buy from one device to another, so they can take it off the PC and on to a portable device. And the last key? "Compatibility with iTunes," says Martin."We are confident this market will grow," says Martin. "We don't want to end up in a price war. We have built this to create a sustainable, subscription business."
Can't decide which games you'd like to receive from Santa (or whatever supernatural seasonal being you subscribe to)? Need help picking the perfect gift for the gamer in your life? Assistance is at hand! Over the next week, Gamesblog will be bringing you its selection of recommended recent titles, starting with the finest gems from the PlayStation 3 release calendar. I've even put these in a totally subjective order of merit so as to court some festive controversy.If you don't agree with my choices (and I've only gone for UK retail titles from the last three or four months to make it timely), go ahead and suggest your own in the comments section. You too can help bring yuletide cheer to living rooms up and down the land!Tomorrow: Jack Arnott and the Nintendo Wii!10.IL-2 Sturmovik: Birds of Prey(Gaijin Entertainment, 505 Games)Certainly not the most fashionable title on the list, and nowhere near the most critically acclaimed, but what the heck - this is an astonishingly entertaining WW2 flight sim, packed with key battles and recognisable aircraft, and intuitive enough (thanks to the forgiving mechanics of the Arcade mode) to welcome complete newcomers to the genre. The missions are familiar but varied enough to keep you plugging through on single player, then there's a rich multiplayer online mode to aim your MG 131 machine guns at. Could get several generations of your family huddled around the TV – though mostly the male members, I fear.9.The Beatles: Rock Band(Harmonix, EA)Brimming with respect and admiration for the Fab Four, this fascinating musical adventure follows the band from those inauspicious early gigs at the Cavern Club to their final performance on the rooftop of Apple HQ. 'Being' The Beatles is a strange experience, but a satisfying and educational one, factors that lift it above the usual party fun of the standard Rock Band and Guitar Hero titles. True, there are 'only' 45 songs, but they're among the finest songs ever written and if you're looking for an alternative to belting out eighties pop hits and seventies AOR standards this Christmas, you have to slap this on your list and hope Santa is a fan of John, Paul, George and Ringo, too.8.Ratchet and Clank: A Crack in Time(Insomniac, Sony)The comic book platforming adventure was a key genre on PS2 with Ratchet and Clank and Jak and Daxter at the very top of a considerable heap. Those days of cartoon aliens and knockabout space action are largely gone, but A Crack in Time is a fitting paeon, loaded with customisable weapons, fiendish puzzles and manic set-pieces. The strength of the series has always been the way in which Insomniac instills these characters with genuine gravitas; their quest to foil the evil Dr. Nefarious is almost Homeric in scope. A rewarding alternative to settling down in front of the latest Disney animated adventure.7.Dragon Age: Origins(Bioware, EA)Bioware has done it again, building a massive narrative experience that truly pushes at the boundaries of interactive story-telling. While Mass Effect was an epic space opera, this is back-to-the-roots fantasy stuff, pitching you into the Tolkien-esque landscape of  Ferelden where the Darkspawn and Grey Warden factions compete for control of the kingdom. The visuals are workmanlike and the battle system patchy but there's no arguing with the sheer depth of the experience, allowing gamers to build their own massive heroic fable filled with choices that sway the course of the whole world. Just make sure you put plenty of time aside – this is not one for a quick ten minute sesh during the Queen's speech.6.Colin McRae Dirt 2(Codemasters)Codemasters has never been afraid to offend purists with its approach to the driving genre. A throughline can be traced from the knockabout cartoon madness of the Micro Machines titles to this latest series – it's all about fun and diversity, rather than tweaking your rear axle and gear ratios until your brain seeps out of your ears. With over a 100 events taking in a vast range of surfaces and vehicle types, Dirt 2 offers amazing diversity and some rip-roaring high-speed experiences. And thanks to a robust yet complimentary handling mechanic, you will feel like a rallying God in the process.5.Fifa 10(EA Sports, EA)I recently spent two weeks working in the Future Publishing offices and every lunchtime and evening, saw all the console mag writers huddling around their giant LCD TVs playing this. Not PES. This. Fifa 10 offers a fluid, thorough and engaging simulation, which makes use of an improved physics engine to offer real passing depth and accuracy – the defining element of a good football game - as well as the fabled 360-degree dribbling. The usual wealth of modes and options add to the mix, and of course, it all looks beautiful. A mammoth inter-family Fifa 10 tournament is the only way to slowly recover from your Christmas dinner blowout this year…4.Batman: Arkham Asylum(Rocksteady Studios, Eidos)No one ever really expects much from super hero games – there have been so many poor examples over the years, often rushed out to accompany equally mediocre movies. But this is different. Clearly inspired by the graphic novels of Frank Miller, Alan Moore and Grant Morrison, as well as a deep delve into the mythology of the character, Arkham is an engrossing Gothic spectacle boasting perfect controls, a thrilling story and a wealth of discoverable extras. Some called it this year's Bioshock, others referenced Metal Gear Solid: Rocksteady Studios' wonderful game is completely comfortable in this revered company.3.Assassin's Creed 2(Ubisoft Montreal)Like Uncharted 2, this is a title that took a promising predecessor, improved every facet, and provided one of the most complete gaming experiences of the year. Designer Patrice Desilets and his vast team have constructed a thrillingly detailed evocation of renaissance Italy and chucked the player right into the centre of it as a stroppy noble on a vengeance mission. What really works is the combination of impressive depth and innovation with a solid platforming mechanic. It is also a benchmark open-world game, providing true freedom within a strong narrative structure. If you want to get away from it all during Christmas, this is the place to head for – it's cheaper and more exhilarating than a weekend in Venice – though you may have trouble convincing your non-gaming partner…2.Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2(Infinity Ward, Activision)Oh God, what is there left to say? Yes, the single player campaign is comparatively short, the airport level is questionable (did it go too far, or not nearly far enough?) and the plot has attention deficit disorder. But, bloody hell, Infinity Ward knows how to choreograph an interactive action set-piece like no other developer on Earth and chucks in plenty of audacious narrative moments, too. Then you have the exemplary online multiplayer mode, so solid, so engaging and so full of brilliant features it will keep you engaged for months, no matter how many times you're insulted by squeaky-voiced American teenagers who seem to have learned their entire vocabulary from a mix of Steven Seagal movies and paranoid right-wing blogs.1.Uncharted 2(Naughty Dog, Sony)The first game was a solid attempt to bring cinematic Boy's Own adventures like Raiders of the Lost Ark and Romancing the Stone to the PS3. The sequel, benefiting from Naughty Dog's growing experience and confidence with the hardware, is a masterful rendition, combining breathtaking visual flair, excellent voice-acting (good lord, it's rare that we ever write that) and brilliant co-operative play. It is a true next-generation game, a showcase for what console hardware can achieve in this era. Many will view it as THE game of the year full stop. Play it and then try arguing with them.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; As December lubes itself up in the calendar's birth canal, the world and its dog is gearing up for Christmas: not least online retailers, who arelooking forward to record salesdespite the recession. November 30th is what they call (rather anachronistically) "Cyber Monday" in the United States, but the positive signs are already around - last Fridaywas a record-breaker for PayPal, while Activision said that theCall of Duty franchise had surpassed $3bn in sales.&bull; Here's one you can expect to get picked up by as an example of How the Internet is Destroying Society: a report from theNew York Daily Newsdetailing howsome of the city's gangs are using Twitter. A variety of groups are throwing out taunts and exchanging insults online, which (of course) is the sort of thing that will raise the hackles of anti-net doomers who don't realise that kids will use whatever tools are at hand to give each other grief. The article quotes local police as saying it's actually handy, since they're able to sift through the site for records and evidence.&bull; After plenty of talk about Amazon's Kindle over recent months, here's an interesting post fromJohn Battelle, who says thathe got one as a gift but doesn't want to read books on it. His reasoning, basically, is that Amazon has turned books into a piece of data, not a social object that can be shared and enjoyed with others. Having ploughed through a succession of books - and then given most of them away - while on holiday over the past couple of weeks, I think he's onto something.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
My, hasn't it grown?World of Warcraft celebrates its fifth birthday this month, and the population of Azeroth – the virtual world where this online game takes place – is around 11.5 million. More people now play World of Warcraft, or&nbsp;WoW, than live in Greece.WoW is a sword'n'sorcery game in which players control virtual characters who whizz about killing monsters, collecting treasure, fighting or ganging up with one another. Azeroth has a functioning virtual economy, and (mindbogglingly) an exchange rate with the real world: a WoW gold piece,&nbsp;enough to buy you some virtual barbecued boar ribs, is currently worth about one and a half euro cents. Also, WoW has some wicked magic swords. Yet grown-ups play it. In fact, seduced by the beauty of this whole new world that's theirs to explore, they find it eats&nbsp;their lives.WoW is such a colossal and pernicious time-suck that it can have you slaying goblin pirates till 4am. It is also,&nbsp;undoubtedly, a work of art. But what sort of work of art? I have a theory. Computer games are often described in terms of what they resemble. They appear on screen; they feature dwarves, giant spiders and gurgling fish-men; they have cinematic trailers and blockbuster-style launches – so they must be like films, right? Wrong.Games aren't trying to be films any more than songs are trying to be poems, paintings are trying to be photographs, or Ginsters pasties are trying to be food. When it comes to WoW, the comparison is especially skewed. Films, with the exception of Andy Warhol's, are all about narrative. They tell stories. But narrative is probably WoW's weakest suit. Here's a typical sequence: kill demon boar, kill another demon boar, get ambushed by ghoul, swear, wake up in graveyard, traipse in&nbsp;ectoplasmic form across open country (swearing all the way) to your&nbsp;own dead body, resurrect self, get ambushed by ghoul again, awake in graveyard again, swear again.Nothing is permanently at risk. Good and evil are simply team colours, not moral convictions. Endlessly repeatable, the "quests" are more like errands or even rituals. Your character is changed by these quests only by becoming richer, more powerful and better dressed. Azeroth is the only place where I can get away with wearing gem-encrusted black leather trousers.So here's my theory: WoW doesn't resemble a film. It resembles, rather, a medieval cathedral. And a magnificent one: it is the Chartres of the video-game world. Like a cathedral, it is a supreme work of art that is, on a brick-by-brick basis, the creation of hundreds of artisans and craftsmen, many of whom&nbsp;will be long gone by the time it comes to completion; indeed, since WoW is in a state of permanent expansion, it may not ever be "complete". All those programmers are the modern-day equivalent of stonemasons, foundation-diggers and structural engineers.Cathedrals don't really have narratives either, but they do have a mythos – a system of stories – behind them. And oh boy, does WoW have a mythos: just Google Kil'Jaeden and the Shadow Pact or Kel'Thuzad and the Forming of the Scourge, and you'll wish you never had. The Azeroth has a historical back-story involving aeons of strife and sacrifice, unspeakable cataclysms, mighty heroes, and tonnes and tonnes of that sort of guff.But the mythos is there in the background: it's part of the furniture, rather than part of the action – in the same way that windows of stained-glass martyrs, or narrative frescoes of the Passion, serve as a backdrop to ritual observances in a cathedral. And the observances of WoW are, like those that take place in a cathedral, calmingly repetitious and governed by rules. Instead of a series of Hail Marys, you're handed a target number of flowers to collect, or giants to kill; instead of manna from heaven, you are rewarded with experience points in the XP bar.It is rich in decorative detail, but the&nbsp;decorative detail is not the point. Azeroth's architecture is a glorious space for glorious things to happen in. And, like a cathedral, it is above all asocialspace, for communal experience. That's what has given it its longevity. Five years isn't long in terms of the life of a cathedral; for a computer game, it's an eternity, given that you can finish most in a matter of hours. The people who stay in WoW join guilds, make friends online, go questing in groups and spend hours (with only a bit of giant-slaying) talking in the chat channels. It's as much a social networking site as a videogame. You log on and gossip in its pews.Gone are the days when families gathered round the wireless. Inconceivable, now, would be the simultaneous nationwide toilet flush during the break of the final MASH episode. Art is increasingly consumed in isolation – through earplugs, on the computer, on demand. Yet there's still a thirst for a communal experience of culture. Hence the boom in live music, and in interactive, watch-on-the-night shows like The X Factor. And then there's World of Warcraft, perhaps the daddy of them all: a cathedral without a god, where you and your gang can hang out – dressed in leather, killing goblins and eating ribs.
BritainVillagers in Broughton, Milton Keynes, said no to the roving eye of Google by forming a human chain to turn away its camera car. But news crews then raced to Broughton, snapping photos and broadcasting images of the village to the rest of the country. In London, an image of a man in T-shirt and shorts emerging from a Soho sex shop was removed.GreeceThe country's privacy watchdog demanded to know how long images would be stored before it allowed Google to continue taking pictures.JapanGoogle has agreed to reshoot its photos after complaints that cameras peeped over hedges and fences.SwitzerlandAuthorities have sought more safeguards from Google after complaints. In one image, a married Swiss politician seen with a blonde woman, not his wife, was forced to explain publicly that the woman was his secretary.USWorried about the threat to security, the Pentagon banned images of military bases. IA couple tried to sue Google after an image of their home appeared on Street View but their privacy claim was thrown out by a judge.AustraliaCouncil planning officials used Street View to help them gather evidence of unapproved home extensions, unfenced swimming pools and unauthorised demolitions.
A basic principle of warfare is never to fight on terrain chosen — or dominated — by your enemy. This principle seemed to explain why, as Google rose to challenge Microsoft as the world's most powerful technology company, the one market it eschewed was that for operating systems. That territory was dominated by Bill Gates &amp; Co and so Google concentrated on building dominance in areas where Microsoft was feeble or non-existent: search, cloud computing, web applications, advertising. It all seemed so sensible.But thenlast July, Google gave notice that it had changed tackby revealing it was working on a radical new operating system called Chrome OS. Just over a week ago,the product was officially launchedat the company's Californian HQ, which left the technology community intrigued and puzzled, and the mainstream media salivating over the prospect of a head-to-head battle between Google and Microsoft.The first computers equipped to run Chrome won't hit stores until late next year, but we now know what they will look like. Essentially they will be "netbooks", but with a difference: all the software on them will come from Google, via the internet. And Google will make the key decisions about the hardware on which its new system will run.As the Guardian'sJack Schofield put it:"If Chrome OS takes off, it will give Google an unprecedented degree of power over PC vendors, who will only be able to use products that Google specifies and supports. Google will control and maintain the operating system remotely, so if it doesn't want you to have something, you can't have it."The degree of power Google seeks over hardware is akin to that demanded by Apple, hitherto the leading exponent of control freakery in the technology business. For example, Chrome netbooks won't be allowed to use hard disks – because flash (ie solid-state) drives boot faster and Google is obsessed with reducing boot-up times. And if you want to install your own wi-fi card in your netbook, forget it: Google will specify which wi-fi cards its software will support.Implicit in Google's operating system strategy are two radical ideas. The first is that we have definitively moved into the era where the network – not the PC – is the computer. The idea is that most people can now get all the computing services they need – web browsing, email, instant messaging, word processing, spreadsheets, blogging, telephony, etc – via the net, so they no longer need to have a machine capable of running a bloated, clunky operating system. All they need instead is an internet-ready device that can get its operating system from the network "cloud" and then get on with the real work of the day.The second radical idea embedded in the Google scheme is the notion that what people really need is an information appliance that "just works". Sundar Pichai, the Google vice-president who launched the system, claimed that the aim was to make the Chrome OS work like a TV: you turn it on and in a few seconds you can get the programme you want. No more interminable delays while the computer boots up, checks its memory and loads the operating system before it deigns to give you so much as a log-on prompt.The flip side of all this, of course, is that Chrome netbooks will be the ultimate in tethered devices. You may own the machine, just as you may think you own your Apple iPhone, but in fact Google controls it, just as Apple controls the phone. If, for example, you've tinkered with the device overnight, and the Google server detects the change as you hook up to the net, then the operating system may be remotely deleted and a fresh version installed without your knowledge or consent. Google will argue that this is for your own good – that it's an effective defence against the viruses, trojans and malware that plague current users of Microsoft operating systems.And so it is. But it's also a limitation on your freedom. In his 2008 book,The Future of the Internet– and how to stop it, Harvard academic Jonathan Zittrain painted a vivid picture of the dangers of a world in which most people's access to the internet is via tethered devices controlled by powerful companies. If Chrome OS takes off we will have taken a giant leap into that nightmare. For1984read 2010.
Britain faces a new threat from the sharp increase in cyber-crime with sophisticated hackers leaving the government far behind in its attempts to catch them, according to the world's leading expert in online security.Mikko Hyppönen, who regularly works with Scotland Yard, the FBI, the US National Security Agency and Interpol, said popular networking sites such as Facebook, Twitter and Linkedin were now prime targets for criminals."It's happening all over the world," said Hyppönen, who refuses to use Facebook. "These guys steal an individual's profile, then email everyone in their contacts with a link and a subject heading like 'check this out'. You trust the email because it's from your friend. So you click on the link and before you know it all your security information has been stolen. I don't use Facebook because I know who's watching and I don't want these guys looking at pictures of me and my family. People think no one phishing will be able to make money from Facebook, but cyber-criminals can. This is only the beginning. You will see this happening more and more."Hyppönen spoke to theObserverat a two-day online security conference in Helsinki, where he works as chief research officer at the security firm F-Secure. "The biggest change of the last 20 years has been the change in the enemy," he said. "In the vast majority of these cases, we have no idea where they are coming from. But when we do and we catch the criminals, their sentence is so light the mind boggles." Hyppönen cites the example of a 21-year-old Finnish cyber-criminal nicknamed Oyvasi who was part of an online gang with operations in the UK, Saudia Arabia and Canada. Other members of the gang have also been convicted with more cases continuing. Oyvasi was given 108 hours' community service for his offences. "They didn't even take his computer, just his hard drive," said Hyppönen, who believes cyber-crime is not yet considered as serious as "real" crime."These guys steal personal financial data and sell it to the highest bidder. It's like robbing a bank, but why rob a bank now when you can steal huge amounts of money from the comfort of your own home in another continent?"Hyppönen has said that he is baffled by the way the world conducts online banking with common domain names ending in .com or .uk giving criminals a helping hand in setting up high-quality rogue websites, which are popping up every day."They may look like the real thing, but they're operated by criminals. They are hosted on websites with misleading names that read like a real bank's web address, but the domains are registered for as little as £3 with fake contact information." Impostors then bombard consumers with "phishing" e-mails, luring them to these sites, where their financial information is stolen.Hyppönen has called for the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, which creates top-level domains, to create a new, secure domain, with a £30,000 price tag making it prohibitively expensive to most copycats."Things are going to get worse before they get better," said Hyppönen, "but we are not giving up the fight."
GagadailyLady Gaga is the most interesting and provocative pop star in years; not since Eminem has a singer provoked a reaction equally divided between repulsion and adoration. As you would expect, this fansite resides in the latter camp and has charged itself with being the premium source of all Gaga-related news, of which there is plenty as not a day goes by without her either upsetting someone, releasing a new single or being photographed wearing something ridiculous made out of lightbulbs/foil/lace/dead Muppets. All your Gaga needs and more are served here, including videos, live downloads, fashion galleries and a rather fantastic animation of her cackling on the Jonathan Ross show while holding a dainty teacup.Autocomplete MeHave you noticed how Google seems to know what you're thinking before you do? This phenomenon is most notable when you're inputting something into the search box and its magical algorithms offer a dropdown box based on other people's searches. All fine if you're searching for Rick Astley or estate agents in Brighton but less reliable if, say, you're typing in "how to rap" and just before you type the letter "P" Google suggests, "How to raise your IQ by eating gifted children"; 14,200 results for that topic, apparently. Herein lie hundred of these autocomplete "fails", all of which display the flaw in Google's masterplan. As an experiment just type the words "I really" into Google and marvel at the wonder of technology.BLOG ROLL: FILMThe Good, The Bad And The Ugly Photograph: Ronald Grant ArchiveHeyUGuysThe top five foodie films of all time plus reviews, trailers and an audio interview with the Coens.Docs That RockNews and YouTube links dedicated to music documentaries including the intriguing Taqwacore: The Birth Of Punk Islam.Split ScreenDocumenting the split-screen special effect used in TV opening credits such as Dallas.Market SawThe movie world seen through 3D glasses, including disturbing news that the next Jackass film comes with an added dimension.Reel StreetsThen-and-now location shots of Quadrophenia and hundreds of others.Old HollywoodFilm stills, trailers, music and quotes from the golden age of cinema.WHAT WE LEARNED ON THE WEB THIS WEEKWill "Mr 30.39513677 per cent" FerrellFor every dollarWill Ferrell is paid his films make $3.29What it's likedesigning sites for people who moan that "the unicorns aren't realistic enough"The hilarityof visual fruit jokesA handshakebeats an autograph every timeThe partsof London Sherlock Holmes knewCommuters do themost annoying thingsThe historyof the internet in a nutshellWhat happenedwhen Facebook and MySpace met at a party in north LondonWhere to becomeinstantly awesome
New Super Mario Bros, Nintendo WiiWhile not a true successor to Super Mario Galaxy, at least this supplies more Mario for Xmas and those who enjoyed New Super Mario Bros on the DS will be pleased to hear it's a completely different game. It's also one that becomes a far more aggressive test of gaming mettle, albeit tempered by the Super Guide, which does levels for you if you fail eight consecutive times; you can interrupt to take over, but Nintendo's desire to leave no player behind is clearly leading to some original thinking. The biggest difference here is that you can attack the game with up to three accomplices. Aside from that, it's a potpourri of Mario ideas from the ages without the usual crazy reinvention and with a slightly charmless 3D aesthetic. Highly playable, but not quite the seamless genius that's become Nintendo's baseline expectation.Nintendo, £32.99-£39.99LittleBigPlanet, PSPLittleBigPlanet.LittleBigPlanet, the superb, critically lauded, commercially mildly disappointing PlayStation 3 killer application gets shrunk for the handheld PSP. Its spirit of gentle Womble-like invention of fabulous machines from bric-a-brac survives completely intact, as does its perfectly cast Stephen Fry voiceover. With 30 levels set in seven themed areas, the game's core mechanic of having your sackboy or girl hop, grab and catapult themselves to victory is tempered once again by a difficulty level than eventually starts to seem pretty brutal. It has no multiplayer mode and customising your character feels pointless when they're so tiny you can hardly make out what they look like, but such niggles pale into insignificance next to the fully featured level editor and online sharing abilities that should see new content being created, free, by you, well into the coming year. With so few entertaining titles on PSP, this is good reason to dust yours off and see if it still works.Sony Computer Entertainment Europe, £17.99-£24.99Invizimals, PSPInvizimalsPresented by an excitable scientist who explains that the PSP's camera lets you see creatures otherwise invisible to the naked eye, your job is to track down Invizimals in your own home. Pointing the PSP camera at different colours and textures until you track one down, catching it involves tossing a supplied square of cardboard into the camera's view then completing a capture mini-game, which varies from shooting lasers to shouting loudly. The latter technique is one of many factors that render this unsuitable for portable use, unless you enjoy inspiring simultaneous amusement and fear in your fellow commuters. Once captured, you get to fight other Invizimals in a way that is copyright-threateningly close to Pokémon. Like Eye Pet, this is full of good ideas gutted and hung out to dry by the technology.Sony Computer Entertainment Europe, £29.99-£35
A pub owner has had to pay £8,000 after someone used its open wireless hotspot to download copyrighted material unlawfully, says the managing director of the hotspot provider The Cloud.Graham Cove, MD of The Cloud,told ZDNet UKthat the case, brought in the civil courts, is believed to be the first of its kind in the UK.A legal expert told ZDNet UK that if the Digital Economy bill, proposed by the government last week, passes in its present form then the problem for hotspot providers could get worse, because under its rules the owner of the copyrighted material would simply target the internet address of the hotspot and look no further. In this case, that would be the pub.Cove declined to name the pub involved in the case because the pub chain that owns is it is a client of The Cloud's, has not given its permission. Its clients include Fullers, Greene King, Marsdens, Scottish &amp; Newcastle, Mitchell &amp; Butlers and Punch Taverns.Although copyright owners have brought infringement cases against individuals before in the UK, this case is believed to be the first where the operator of a hotspot - where people can buy or get free access to a high-speed wireless internet connection - has been successfully sued.Professor Lilian Edwards, of the school of law at the University of Sheffield, told ZDNet UK that businesses operating a hotspot for customers or visitors would be "not responsible in theory" for users' unlawful downloads, under "existing substantive copyright law".However the business would not be at risk of being cut off under the "three strikes" rule in the Digital Economy bill: it would have an exemption on the basis that it is not a "subscriber".ZDNet UK said thatAccording to legal advice sent to The Cloud by the law firm Faegre &amp; Benson on 17 August, "Wi-Fi hotspots in public and enterprise environments providing access to the internet to members of the public, free or paid, are public communications services".Edwards pointed out that, even if the sanctions proposed in the Digital Economy Bill come into force,"no-one will know who [the downloader] was, because the IP address that will show up [upon investigation] will be of the hotspot". She added that the rights holder seeking infringers of their copyright would probably not know that the IP address in question was not that of a subscriber.It would then be up to the hotspot operator to point out that they were not the end user downloading copyrighted material. "But when would they get to say that? Maybe straightaway, maybe not until after disconnection — it's not currently clear," Edwards said.The case is already being seen as the thin end of a legal wedge that the Digital Economy bill might drive deeper into the business models being operated by companies offering web connectivity.(Updated to correct to ZDNet UK, not ZDNet; corrected to add "not" to Professor Lilian Edwards quote which now reads "businesses operating a hotspot for customers or visitors would be "notresponsible in theory". Apologies for the errors.)
Your neighbours are going away for the weekend – a romantic second honeymoon, so it happens – and have asked you to babysit their kids. Both boys, and being aged eight and 12, they are heavily into video games. When they arrive, they're brandishing a copy ofCall of Duty: Modern Warfare 2. Their parents bought it for them, even though it's an 18-classification game. Your kids, of the same age, who you don't let play age-innapropriate games, are goggle-eyed and want to play it straight away. What do you do?
Following the success of the SingStar and Lips series on the rival consoles, a spot of Wii karaoke always looked as inevitable as Christmas. What's so surprising, however, is that the resulting game, We Sing, is so limited compared to its rivals.There are no extra songs to download. There is no interactive upload-your-performance capability. There is also no need to sing particularly well.This latter point is, arguably, a "very good thing", the sort of levelling of the playing field that Nintendo is generally so good at. However, given that blowing into the microphone or making pretty much any sort of noise can earn you a "perfect" score, it does undermine the game somewhat. Yes, you want all the family to play along – and the ability to have four people singing simultaneously is a fine touch – but it's hard not to feel that this could be handled slightly better on what is supposed to be a singing game.There are still plus points. The aforementioned four-player angle opens up the genre to even the most introverted, and the selection of songs – while undeniably hampered by the lack of additional downloadable content – covers several bases and is pleasingly eccentric. It's also good to see original videos and original artists on all but four of the 30 songs.Fans of the 80s are particularly well catered for, with the Police, Madness, Culture Club, Duran Duran and UB40 featuring, and there are some fine (and silly) group options courtesy of Aqua's Barbie Girl and the Spice Girls' Wannabe. Strangely though, there are more one hit wonders – Chesney Hawkes, Tasmin Archer, Charles &amp; Eddie, Shampoo – and recent successes – Duffy, Lily Allen, Lady Ga-Ga, Kaiser Chiefs, Coldplay, Amy Winehouse – than there are bona fide karaoke classics. Yes, it's always fun belting out Delilah, Don't Go Breaking My Heart and, er, Take Me Home Country Roads, but where are the rock'n'roll, jazz and disco standards?There are several game modes – Versus, Pass The Mic, Group Battle, We Sing, First To 5000 Points – and three difficulty levels. This helps to increase the game's longevity and it's easy to see We Sing getting a thorough airing at drunken Christmas gatherings. The chances of it going back in the Wii anytime after January, however, are very small.
From the beginning of the lovingly-rendered intro, there is something that feels a little plagiarised in the storytelling of Ratchet and Clank: A Crack in Time. Is there a little of The Incredibles about the bumbling, oversized Captain Qwark? Or is he a clone of Futurama's Zapp Brannigan? Is that the voice of Professor Hubert Farnsworth doing Clank? And isn't Dr Nefarious a little bit Mars Attacks? Or Dexter's Lab? Or something from Disney? I'm sure I've seen him somewhere before.The gameplay, on the other hand, is replete with kooky originality. Messing with time is one of the central mechanics: you can lob time-grenades which slow down time within a certain field, allowing you to jump across falling platforms, run across swiftly spinning surfaces, or dodge bullets. There are also temporal recording platforms; essentially a macro function, where you can record an action, such as pressing a button to open a door, and then play it back to allow you to pass through. It can feel a little arbitrary, but the logic puzzle-solving elements are satisfying enough.There are ambitious sub-level bits which expand the game away from the standard 3D-platformer fare, too. Between missions, rather than just jump from level to level, you get to fly Ratchet's spaceship in a free-roaming space-sim mini-game, dogfighting and completing missions for rogue traders.Less well-judged are the occasional rail-bound skateboarding sections, which are too linear and a little dull.While the basic combat and puzzle elements are excellent, the vast number of gameplay options can make the controls seem frustratingly complex at times. The numerous features make it very easy to forget which button does what, especially as they seem to switch functions at will. It is commonplace to plummet to the bottom of a crevasse because the button which up until that point operated the grappling hook did something completely different this time. But however unoriginal the characters may feel, this is seriously accomplished game. I suppose it is a testament to the talent of its writers that their characters remind me of bona fide comedy shows and films. The scriptwriting is consistently entertaining, and even laugh-out-loud funny, in places. So what if it reminds me of Futurama when it's this much fun?Developer Insomniac Games has certainly not shied away from innovation, and while the controls may be difficult to get to grips with, the overall game experience is still excellent.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?I don't want to sound like I'm following the crowd, but it has to be the iPhone. For the past year and a half it's been the passion of my life.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I'm using it now [to do this interview]. The latest thing I'm hooked on is this app, Chess With Friends, and you can play it with anyone who's got an iPhone. Most of the Harry Potter cast and crew have got them, and we're always playing chess against each other.What additional features would you add if you could?Oh god, you know what would be really good for me is a dog locater – it would save me the hours that I have to spend looking for my dog.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?It's impossible to say. I can't help but think this is just the start for Apple phones.What frustrates you about technology in general?You've got to hate it when things crash – when there's no actual fault, but it just doesn't work. And the other thing I can't stand is when other countries are technologically so far ahead of us.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?Loads, because I'm a tech geek. I'm always buying gadgets, especially at airports. I recently bought a set of wireless headphones, and thought they looked cool … but the sound quality was naff and I looked like a Martian.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?The first thing I do with anything new is go to YouTube and look for a "how to" video. Going online and asking questions is the best way to learn.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I'm a little bit of a geek – I have to be the first person to get new things when they come out. I always want to buy and try new gadgets.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Probably my only real indulgence over the past few years has been cars, I do love them. I drive a BMW at the moment, a Z4, and that's pretty technical.Mac or PC, and why?I would have said PC endlessly for the past 12 years, because that's all I always used. But eight months ago I got a Macbook and have been using that ever since. I do like Windows, but for user satisfaction it has to be the Mac.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?Rarely, it must me said. iTunes has been one of the biggest pluses for me in the past five years.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Sounds tempting, but there is always that fear that they could go wrong. I think I'd take a human butler over a robot one.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I do have a bit of a garden and I'd love a hovercraft to get around it – one of the big four-seater ones with the fan on the back.•Tom Felton stars as Draco Malfoy in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, which is out on Blu-ray and DVD on 7 December
At a time when the Wii's Achilles heel is its lack of good quality third-party titles that aren't lightgun games, it's depressing to come across a new release that suffers from a total failure to harness any of the trump cards Nintendo's machine holds over its HD rivals.Ju-On: The Grudge is based on the J-horror film and styles itself as a haunted house simulator – an interesting enough starting point for a game you'd think, but any potential is killed off quicker than a promiscuous teenage girl in a Friday the 13th sequel.Playing as a series of characters, you find yourself armed with only a torch and tasked with wandering around a muddily realised, recycled vision of a decaying industrial hellhole for no good reason ("find your runaway dog!"). Condemned: Criminal Origins proved four years ago that, while these locations aren't exactly fun to visit, they can be darkly compulsive. But the lack of flair and attention to detail on show here fails to reanimate this particularly rotten corpse.It's the controls and the mechanics of the game that are really fatal, though. Using your Wiimote as a torch isn't a bad idea, but pressing a button to move forward is an option that's rarely used for a reason and the camera controls are a constant source of irritation. The vast majority of the gameplay involves holding down the B button, trudging slowly through the miserable, dark environments in a search for keys and torch batteries that run out far too quickly. Occasionally and predictably a hand will claw at you from a dark recess or a ghost will leap out at you, requiring you to shake the Wiimote about in various ways until you escape. It's imprecise, frustrating, repetitive, lacking in genuine challenge and only barely qualifies as a game. And with no replay value whatsoever, a running time of around six hours reinforces the feeling that Ju-On is frightening for all the wrong reasons.On a final note, it's a crying shame that time and effort have gone into localising Ju-On when Nintendo refuse to adapt Tecmo's fantastic Fatal Frame 4 for release in the west – a genuinely scary, beautifully executed game that most of the Wii's audience are unable to enjoy.
Apple has tweaked its Terms &amp; Conditions for UK buyers "to make them clearer and fairer for consumers", according toa statement from the Office of Fair Trading. The terms cover purchases from Apple and downloads from its iTunes online store.The OFT says it "identified terms in the agreements which raised concerns under the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulation 1999 (UTCCRs)". Following "constructive discussions" these have been revised so that they:• do not exclude liability for faulty or mis-described goods• are consistent with consumer rights under the Distance Selling Regulations• are drafted in plain or intelligible language• do not potentially allow changes to be made to products and prices after an agreement is made.Jason Freeman, legal director of the OFT Consumer Markets Group, said: "The contract or terms of use between a company and a consumer, whether they are found online or on paper, must be clear, fair and easy to understand. In particular, it is important that consumers are given clear and accurate information about their consumer rights in case things go wrong."An OFT spokesman said that its investigation followed similar action by the Norwegian ombudsman. Large companies may use a "standardised contract across many countries" and the changes bring the terms into line with UK consumer laws.Any attempts to exclude liability "may discourage a consumer from making a claim because they didn't know they could," said the spokesman.Apple has received publicity in several countries because of "exploding iPods". In the US,KIRO 7 Eyewitness Newsran a report on "iPods that sometimes burst into flames" anda UK user complainedthat a dropped iPod exploded.In a US statement,Apple warnedthat "batteries in the iPod nano (1st generation) sold between September 2005 and December 2006, may overheat" and traced the fault to a single battery supplier. It asked owners to contact AppleCare for a "replacement or repair".But given the vast number of iPods sold -- more than 200m -- such incidents appear to be extremely rare.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Half Life 2? GTA III? Halo? Super Mario Galaxy?Carnival: Fun Fair? What were the best fifty games of the last ten years? That's what we're going to reveal during December in the Gamesblog list event of the decade! And while we will be arguing over our selections - and no, Carnival won't be on our lists - we want you to have your say too.How? Well, You have until Friday 4th of December to either comment on this post or email your top five suggestions to us at Gamesblog + googlemail + com. We'll combine these with our own choices in a complex Strictly Come Dancing-style algorithm and the results will appear during the week of December 14-18. We'll also put all the voters into an electronic hat and draw one winner who'll receive an extra Christmas gift this year in the form of... whatever we've been able to blag from game publishers between now and the end of next month!This is an entirely multi-format list, so Xbox 360, PS3, Wii, PC and handheld titles are all included. And don't forget older consoles like Dreamcast, PS2, Gamecube (Eternal Darknessis a definite choice for me) and the original Xbox. Any game released since Jan 1 2000 can be included on your list.Now get thinking, get playing and get commenting/emailing. After all, you don't want to see your favourite PS2 or Dreamcast cult classic get overlooked, right? Good luck....
Psion tried to enforce its rights over the netbook designation, and now a German company, Smartbook AG, is trying the same thing with the word Smartbook. This story has been bubbling under for a while, with Smartbook AG targeting the $10bn Qualcomm in a German district court. Well, Qualcomm has put the most effort into getting the industry to talk about smartbooks, andhopes to profit mightily from smartbook sales.As Robin Wauters pointed out inTechCrunch: "Smartbook AG has also targeted media outlets who use the word generically to describe some next-generation devices. For instance, electronics industry newspaper EE Times has removed all references to the word, and even downrightdeleted an articlethat dealt with the legal threats put forward by Smartbook against the media company." Now it seems to be going after bloggers. The story adds:Today, Sascha Pallenberg from blog and video publisher NetbookNews got in touch with us to let us know that he has recently received a letter from a German lawyer asking him to refrain from using the term 'smartbook' on his online network.It seems that Smartbook AG has trademarked Smartbook in most Western European countries and a few others, but whether it can turn back the tide is another matter. Its actions will certainly bring the company publicity, but I suspect some of it will become increasingly uncomplimentary.* Wikipedia has been in the news this week following a story in the Wall Street Journal about a rapid decline in the number of contributors. I referred to that in a post below:Have you stopped editing Wikipedia? And if so, is it doomed?Now the Wikimedia Blog has responded to all the coverage with a long post:Wikipedia's Volunteer Story.Wikipedia explains that it has a different definition of editor (it's someone who makes five or more edits, not just one), and points out that you can't tell if someone is never coming back. It says:Studying the number of actual participants in a given month shows that Wikipedia participation as a whole has declined slightly from its peak 2.5 years ago, and has remained stable since then. (See WikiStats data for all Wikipedia languages combined.) On the English Wikipedia, the peak number of active editors (5 edits per month) was 54,510 in March 2007. After a more significant decline by about 25%, it has been stable over the last year at a level of approximately 40,000. (See WikiStats data for the English Wikipedia.) Many other Wikipedia language editions saw a rise in the number of editors in the same time period.* Returning to smartbooks, the amusing thing about Smartbook AG is that it doesn't sell them: it sells netbooks. What distinguishes smartbooks from netbooks is that they have ARM (not Intel Atom) processors and they don't run Microsoft Windows. They should therefore be cheaper, because ARM chips are cheaper than Intel chips, and because operating systems such as Google Android, Chrome OS and Microsoft Windows CE are much cheaper or free. (Windows CE is the basis for Pocket PCs, Windows Mobile etc. And yes, you can get the CE source code and change it.) Maybe you can also leave out the hard drive, as with Chrome OS devices.This prompted me totweet a question: "if Chrome OS netbooks are going to cost £/$150-200, why do smaller ARM-based smartphones cost £/$300-500?"Two of the answers were: "miniaturisation, leading edge tech and marketing," from@chippy, the editor of UMPCPortal; and "Because, to quote a certain software company, the manufacturers charge 'what the market will bear'," from PC Pro's@bazzacollins.Smartphones can be "cheap" or even free because the hardware cost is subsidised by overpriced talktime, but an unlocked Android phone frequently costs £350 and can go up to £600 (that's a rough dollar conversion for aMotorola MilestoneAndroid 2 phone costing $999.99).Anyway, I still don't see why a smartphone should cost twice as much as a smartbook or netbook, so if anyone knows, I'd love an explanation.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
iPhone developer? Had your app rejected for unfathomable reasons by Apple? Hey, there's an app - well, actually a website, though we'd have thought it's a logical next step to make it an app - for that.The site you're looking for isapprejections.com, set up by British iPhone app developer Adam White whodescribes himselfas "games developer specialising in online games... usually at a senior level". (Oh look, weinterviewed him on the Gamesblog in 2007.)Anyhow, hefeelsthat Apple "has a secret, undocumented, unquestionable, random process for deciding which applications to 'allow' onto the deck." The rejection of Google Voice did change things, by prompting an FCC investigation into Apple's business processes for app approval. That, though, meant that "the invisible submission process changed radically shortly after - and in particular the number of truly 'unfair' rejections soared," Martin asserts.I'm not sure if that is correct; even though we've written about Applebanning Macworld's ebookthat had the word "iPhone" in the title, andappearing to delaythe 0870 app, there's a fairly clear list of things that get you banned. Using private APIs, that sort of thing.In fact Iwrote back in Julyabout a Tumblr blog that was collecting feedback on precisely this: theApplication Submission Feedback blog, which seems to be up-to-date (there aren't dates, but the latest recorded feedback is recent).Perhaps the two could somehow figure out a way to collaborate so that the "mysterious" rejections can be logged against topics in the App Submission Feedback blog? It might be a plan.(If you've had your app rejected from the App Store, then tellAdam Martin on Twitter. And tell us, of course.)In the meantime, we sincerely hope that someone will turn the App Store Rejection site into an app. We'd love to know if that will then be accepted or rejected, and whether that would be likeRussell's Paradox- which is whether a book that lists all the books that do not list themselves should list itself (or who shaves the barber who shaves everyone who doesn't shave themself - though that's easy: hire a female barber). Should an app that lists rejections be rejected? Only time will tell.
Write a worm, get a job? In some cases, yes - and in the case of Ashley Towns, absolutely yes – even though his hiring, by the Australian companymogeneration, has brought cries of outrage from some security companies.Towns wrote Ikee, a proof-of-concept worm that found jailbroken iPhones on which (a) people had installed SSH to upload programs and (b) hadn't changed the root password: it then changed the phone's wallpaper to Rick Astley.He was emphatically not the person behind the more recent, malicious form of the same worm which tries to phish banking details from people – although that did use his code as a template."We interviewed Ashley, assessed him with our iPhone developer test – which he passed with flying colours – and we employed him today," a spokesperson for mogenerationtold the BBC.So programming expertise which shows up weaknesses in systems that people have hacked themselves should get rewarded, right? Not according to Graham Cluley of Sophos, where apparently they "reacted with bewilderment" at the news."It's very important that a clear message is sent out that writing viruses and worms is not cool, and not a route into employment," said Cluley, senior technology consultant for Sophos. "It's ironic that the owners of iPhones that have not been jailbroken may now find themselves running code written by a virus writer. Customers of Mogeneration may well ask for an explanation for the hacker's employment - and those who were inconvenienced as a result of his worm may wonder when they will be compensated."Sophos estimates that between 17,000 and 25,000 iPhones "might be at risk of infection".While I usually agree with Cluley, in this case I don't. The number of at-risk iPhone isn't Towns's fault. He didn't jailbreak the phones; he simply demonstrated to their owners that they had done something stupid, and demonstrated his own programming chops – in a good, non-exploitative way – at the same time.Arguably, what Towns did is like someone who spots a broken door lock putting a message through the front door. (The metaphor gets a bit stretched here, because the worm did have to access the phone; it might be a bit like getting a robot to go in through the door and deposit the message and then leave, returning the door to its original state.)Back to Cluley: "What disheartens me is that Towns has shown no regret for what he did. He admitted specifically infecting 100 iPhones himself, letting his worm loose in the process. Now his utterly irresponsible behaviour appears to have been rewarded. Will Towns be offering a token $5 compensation to those he infected for the inconvenience he caused? I doubt it... There are plenty of young coders out there who would not have acted so stupidly, are just as worthy of an opportunity inside a software development company, and are actually quite likely to be better coders than Towns who made a series of blunders with his code."OK, so it wasn't perfect. But proofs-of-concept rarely are; they tend to be taking coding to a place it hasn't been before, so the writers are feeling their way somewhat. The most (subsequently) famous that I recall is theWord Concept worm: that started in 1995, when a programmer wondered about the new macro capabilities that had just been built into Microsoft Word. Sure enough, it proved possible to write a self-replicating worm that would infect the templates of Word documents (which is why you now find that Word has a preference not to automatically run macros in documents).Known as Concept, by February 1996 it had infected around 25% of all corporations using Word - having only been devised in August 1995. However, its spread was helped by a big company which sent it out in a CD-ROM: Microsoft. In fact, it's now thought that Concept was written by someone working for the company - though most likely a temporary staffer, rather than full-time.Towns isn't the first to have gotten a high-profile job via hacking. In 2001, the mayor of the town of Sneek in the Netherlands suggested that resident Jan de Wit, who wrote the Anna Kournikova worm, should be considered for employment in the town's IT department. Five years ago, Sven Jaschan, who authored the widespread Netsky and Sasser worms, caused what Sophos calls "outrage" and most others call "a bit of a shrug" in the IT community when he was hired by a German security firm. In 2007, the Chinese creator of a virus which changed icons to a picture of a panda burning joss-sticks was offered a job paying a million Yuan ($133,155) salary by a company which had been infected by his malware.And that's not counting all the people who have been caught and given jobs who you haven't heard of. After all, think about the film Catch Me If You Can, based on real life: if you want to catch criminals, best to have one working for you, because they know how to think like a criminal far better than someone law-abiding. And if you want someone who's going to push the edges of what you do, find a proof-of-concept hacker.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Star Wars has a long and chequered history when it comes to games. For every Knights of the Old Republic orX-Wingthere is aSuper Bombad Racingor - shudder -Masters of Teras Kasi. More recently things have picked up with Force Unleashed surprisingly enjoyable and the upcoming MMOThe Old Republiclooking hugely promising. But what will the next Star Wars game be?A teaser trailerhas just surfaced - Force Unleashed 2 maybe? All will be revealed on Dec 12th.Go on then, it's Thursday and the weekend is still too far away. What are the top 3 best and worst Star Wars games? For me it's KOTOR, Tie Fighter and theoriginal arcade machine- the latter mainly based on nostalgia it has to be said - for best. Teras Kasi, Bombad and the Episode 1 game for worst.Shadows of the Empireon N64 sitting somewhere - probably covered in fog - in the middle. What are yours then?
&bull; in today's paper, Andy Beckett takes a look at thedark side of the internet- looking at things like Freenet (invented by Ian Clarke, who he's talked to), the Russian Business Network (which we've written about before), Tor and others. And of course Sealand, which is the picture:The often furtive, anarchic quality of life online struck some observers decades ago. In 1975, only half a dozen years after the internet was created, the science-fiction author John Brunner wrote of "so many worms and counter-worms loose in the data-net" in his influential novel The Shockwave Rider. By the 80s "data havens", at first physical then online locations where sensitive computerised information could be concealed, were established in discreet jurisdictions such as Caribbean tax havens. In 2000 an American internet startup called HavenCo set up a much more provocative data haven, in a former second world war sea fort just outside British territorial waters off the Suffolk coast, which since the 60s had housed an eccentric independent "principality" calledSealand. HavenCo announced that it would store any data unless it concerned terrorism or child pornography, on servers built into the hollow legs of Sealand as they extended beneath the waves. A better metaphor for the hidden depths of the internet was hard to imagine.&bull; On to the not-so-hidden internet (and similar), but this time it's hidden info. Joe Wilcoxclaims in a post on Betanewsthat nearly half the money spend in US retail stores on desktop machines goes to Apple, based on data from NPD Group. Personally I find the idea bizarre - although perhaps that's saying that very few Windows machines are that expensive, or that very few people buy expensive Windows machines. If you can find a better explanation, do tell.&bull; Twitterfall - you know, that system whereby you can generate a rolling display of any tweets that contain a particular hashtag - often seems like a disaster waiting to happen (andin the wrong hands, it can be). But people have gotten wiser. So when Microsoft put a Twitterfall into the windows of the windows it sponsors at the Saks Fifth Avenue store on 50th Street in New York, looking for #holidaywindows tags, lots of Mac-heads thought it would be fun to insert some Apple-boosting.At which point it gets strange: the Huffington Postclaims to have photosshowing a Mac tweet boosting the virtues of the 27-inch iMac.But over at Techflash, by Todd Bishop (a very reliable Seattle-based reporter who has discovered lots of Microsoft stories), the point is rather well made that theprecise photo used on Huffington Postdoesnotcontain the tweets ascribed to it. That's because, Bishop says,Microsoft has been filtering the tweets- like you would. Nobody is daft enough to put an unfiltered tweetstream in a public place any more, are they?&bull; And it's Thursday, which means it's time to rush out and buy the Guardian for the printed Technology supplement - this is one of the last four. Topics on offer includeour look at the promise of Chrome OS, an examination of thethree-way fight over file-sharing between government, creative companies and ISPs, an interview withLegend of Zelda director Eiji Aonumaare among the attractions.You can find them allhere. We're still interested in hearing your memories of what how it might have helped you down the years: email tech@guardian.co.uk and give it the subject line "Technology memories".You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
I have just had a call from a person unknown with a very heavy accent claiming to be from my Windows 7 software provider. That was his first mistake, as I am running XP on one machine and Vista on another. He said he had been getting "distress messages" from my computer, indicating some infection or corrupt files, and would I please go online now so he could give me a website to connect to. At that point I told him I didn't believe him and cut him off. It seems I may have been being set up for some sort of infection or scam, and people need to be warned about it.Alan DenhamSimilar things have happened to other readers over the past year, and there are reports of other cases on the web. Many calls appear to come from companies based in Kolkata (Calcutta), India, possibly using a UK-based phone number redirection service, or possibly using faked CLI info. They may seem to imply they are calling from Microsoft, but they aren't. If you can get a UK number, you could try complaining to your Trading Standards Office or perhaps lodge a complaint with the freeTelephone Preference Service. You could even contact the local fraud squad at cybercrime@kolkatapolice.gov.in – a suggestion made by a user on theMoney Saving Expert forum.It seems the "scam" is to do some minor housekeeping duties on the PC then try to sell people a subscription support service rather than to plant a Trojan backdoor but, worryingly, that would be possible. There's nothing fundamentally wrong with remote support: it's a service built into Windows, and offered by, for example, the very reputableGeek Squadin the UK. However, it must be based on trust, and I don't see how you could trust someone who is "cold calling" with no prior contact, and making claims that you know are not true.
When I tried to upgrade to AVG9, the installation stopped and asked me to remove OLE (part 1 of 5). I cannot find a program called OLE …Richard BomfordThis is a known bug, and AVG's solution is either to make a small change to the Windows registry or wait for a release that fixes the bug. SeeSome Application Is Listed Many Times As Incompatible (S3GSetup). Otherwise, OLE (Object Linking and Embedding) isn't a program, it's part of Windows.
My daughter's Acer, running Windows Vista Home Premium, is playing up. When I boot up, it shows the message "Configuring updates. Stage 3 of 3. 0% complete. Do not turn off your computer" then shuts down.Dave FeltonThis is a known problem with Vista, and it's covered in Microsoft'sknowledge base article 949358. To prevent it from happening, you should have installed software update 949939, released on 8 April, 2008. While you couldn't be expected to know that, the April update is required for Vista's Service Pack 1, which I'd have thought was an essential upgrade.
My laptop running Vista Home Premium has suddenly started turning downloaded MP3 files into MP2 files, which I cannot play on my Sony portable MP3 player.Matt HuntingfordIf the files were MP3 files, then they should still be MP3 files, so if you manually change the file extension from .mp2 to .mp3 they should play. Indeed, if they were actually MP2 sound files, changing the extension should also make them play. But I don't know what's causing the problem. It could be the browser (so try using a different browser), a corrupted registry entry (check yourfile type assignments) or possibly a virus, for example.
Will the new PlayStation 3 Slim play PlayStation 2 games?Kelvin TraharNo. Sony had already removed the original PlayStation 3's backwards-compatibility with the PS2 to cut costs. It's not in the PS3 Slim, and Sony has no plans to bring it back.
Is the dream over forWikipedia? The "free encyclopaedia anyone can edit" was meant to demonstrate the democratic possibilities of the internet, but a study by Universidad Rey Juan Carlos in Madrid has found that editors are abandoning it. In the first three months of 2009, the English-language site had a net loss of more than 49,000 volunteers, compared to only 4,900 in the same period last year.That's not to say Wikipedia isn't a success: it's the sixth most popular website in the world. So why do fewer volunteers want to edit it?Perhaps it's because editing isn't as much fun as it was three years ago, when the pool of  contributors was growing at its fastest rate. Back then, it was easy to insert anything, even if that was an article about your dog, or the "fact" that stingrays hate Australian people.As Wikipedia tries to be more robust, editing has become less straightforward. Click on "edit this page" and you're presented with a series of directives  encouraging you to create an account and absorb key Wikipedia principles if you want your contributions to stand. Go to an article on a current event, or a celebrity, and you're likely to find that it's been "protected" from tinkering by newcomers.Wikipedia's most loyal volunteers aren't worried. "Wikipedia was  really hot in 2007," says Charles Matthews, one of the site's most prolific editors. "After that peak, we were left with those who are relatively serious about the encyclopedia."But it could be that the  collaborative aspect itself is driving people away. Disenchanted ex-volunteers say they are burned by squabbling with established editors over their contributions, and some claim the site is run by an impenetrable inner circle that controls all its content. "It's colloquially known as the cabal, although it's more like a hierarchy of power cliques, each one staking out its territory," says former contributor Barry Kort.There's also the chance that Wikipedia may be the victim of its own success. With  more than three million English language  articles, perhaps the editors have simply run out of things to say.
Unwanted support callsI have just had a call from a person unknown with a very heavy accent claiming to be from my Windows 7 software provider. That was his first mistake, as I am running XP on one machine and Vista on another. He said he had been getting "distress messages" from my computer, indicating some infection or corrupt files, and would I please go online now so he could give me a website to connect to. At that point I told him I didn't believe him and cut him off. It seems I may have been being set up for some sort of infection or scam, and people need to be warned about it.Alan DenhamJS:Similar things have happened to other readers over the past year, and there are reports of other cases on the web. Many calls appear to come from companies based in Kolkata (Calcutta),  India, possibly using a UK-based phone number redirection service, or possibly using faked CLI info. They may seem to imply they are calling from Microsoft, but they aren't. If you can get a UK number, you could try complaining to your Trading Standards Office or perhaps lodge a complaint with the freeTelephone Preference Service. You could even contact the local fraud squad at cybercrime@kolkatapolice.gov.in – a suggestion made by a user on theMoney Saving Expert forum 9.It seems the "scam" is to do some minor housekeeping duties on the PC then try to sell people a subscription support service rather than to plant a Trojan backdoor but, worryingly, that would be possible. There's nothing fundamentally wrong with remote support: it's a service built into Windows, and offered by, for example, the very reputableGeek Squadin the UK. However, it must be based on trust, and I don't see how you could trust someone who is "cold calling" with no prior contact, and making claims that you know are not true.AVG bugWhen I tried to upgrade to AVG9, the installation stopped and asked me to remove OLE (part 1 of 5). I cannot find a program called OLE …Richard BomfordJS:This is a known bug, and AVG's solution is either to make a small change to the Windows registry or wait for a release that fixes the bug. SeeSome Application Is Listed Many Times As Incompatible(S3GSetup). Otherwise, OLE (Object Linking and Embedding) isn't a program, it's part of Windows.Slim chanceWill the new PlayStation 3 Slim play PlayStation 2 games?Kelvin TraharJS:No. Sony had already removed the original PlayStation 3's backwards-compatibility with the PS2 to cut costs. It's not in the PS3 Slim, and Sony has no plans to bring it back.MP3 files appear as MP2My laptop running Vista Home Premium has suddenly started turning downloaded MP3 files into MP2 files, which I cannot play on my Sony portable player.Matt HuntingfordJS:If the files were MP3 files, then they&nbsp;should still be MP3 files, so if you manually change the file extension from .mp2 to .mp3 they should play. Indeed, if they were actually MP2 sound files, changing the extension should also make them play. But I don't know what's causing the problem. It could be the browser (so try using a different browser), a corrupted registry entry (check your file type assignments) or possibly a virus, for example.Windows update failureMy daughter's Acer, running Windows Vista Home Premium, is playing up. When I boot up, it shows the message "Configuring updates. Stage 3 of 3. 0% complete. Do not turn off your computer" then shuts down.Dave FeltonJS:This is a known problem with Vista,&nbsp;and it's covered inMicrosoft's knowledge base article 949358. To prevent it from happening, you should have installed software update 949939, released on 8 April, 2008. While you couldn't be expected to know that, the April update is required for Vista's Service Pack 1, which I'd have thought was an essential&nbsp;upgrade.Backchat• Roger Hughes says heexported his contacts from Outlook(not Outlook Express) and imported them into the Thunderbird email program. The csv (comma-separated values) file has more fields than Thunderbird can handle, and as a result it just gives up trying to import it, he says. "My workaround involves opening it in Excel and reducing the number of columns to just the ones I want to preserve in Thunderbird. The latter will require you to align its fields with the imported fields, and, if you're lucky, most of the data is where you want it to be."• Adrian Newton says he has moved from "an increasingly flaky Thunderbird" back to Outlook and that Address Book Personal Plus Version 7 from Connected Software did it "with no loss and no problems in a couple of clicks. I had to pay £30 but it was well worth the investment."
