MostTwitterusers love the site for its friendly, like-minded sense of community.Ian Martin, writer and "swearingconsultant" onThe Thick Of It, worries it's become a bit "mimsy". "I&nbsp;know lots of very funny, clever friends on Twitter and it's like a warm blanket when you open it up every morning. But it all just suddenly seemed a bit too comfortable."So on 1 November,Martinstarted a month-long experiment: he unfollowed all his friends on Twitter and replaced them with a wildly different list. "I decided to follow the most hateful people I could find," he says. He has filled his feed with rightwing extremists, religious fundamentalists, gun nuts, racists and homophobes. Now, each day when he logs on, he says he is deluged with whatMalcolm Tuckermight call "arse plasma" from "the hideous mirrorworld of fuck" in the form of video links, sexist rants and antisemitic bile. In turn, he summarises what the far right is talking about in#wrongtwitter postsfor his liberal followers.The experiment is already taking its toll on his happiness. "Some of it's just heartbreaking, but the weirder edges of it get very boring – it's the banality of evil. The ordinary conservative seems to be comparatively sane. It's a relief when you get people who arejustcalling for an armed revolution to get rid of Barack Obama because he is a Marxist&nbsp;Muslim."National Front users have blocked him from reading their tweets, but others are enthusiastically retweeting him. He's losing some friends and gaining dubious new ones. "People are recoiling and unfollowing me but I'm picking up people too – nutty followers in America who just assume I'm a Nazi."He sounds as if he is regretting the idea but he's determined not to give up early. "It's a proper sacrifice. I'm trying not to have that casual contact with people that makes life worth living. The thing that wound me up was that everyone said it was a brave thing to do – the same day a guy got blown up defusing a bomb in Afghanistan. All I'm doing is changing my Twitter feed."At the moment, I'm amassing a huge archive of material, and I suppose at the end I will look for themes. The interesting thing is trying to track my mental disintegration through the month."
SMART FOR TWO£7,748MILES PER GALLON: 85.6CO2PER KM: 88 GRAMSGOOD FOR: CONURBATIONSBAD FOR: CONTORTIONSWhat's the first thing you think about when you see a very,verysmall car? Safety, probably. Or fuel consumption, or maybe its ability to sniff out a parking space in the most unpromising cul-de-sac… But if you are an Ascension Eagle cheerleader your mind will turn to car cramming. Four years ago they set the world record and squeezed 14 into a Smart. Clearly only two wore seat belts, and there was no room for their pom-poms. Six months ago a party of girl guides in Germany had a crack – they must have been bigger as they only managed 13. But they were quicker, all 13 managed to get into the car in under 20 seconds. Inspired by these girls, I had a go at car cramming myself. I fancied my chances. The new Smart is 3cm longer, after all, and  I was using a group of under 8s. We called it quits at seven, plus me as the driver…There's something about the cartoonish stance of a Smart that inspires record breakers and, now in its 11th year, the Smart has been a bit of a record-breaker itself. The diesel-powered version, with its three-cylinder engine, is the world's most efficient production car. It's the carbon champion, coughing up a meagre 88 grams of CO2per km. But don't think its eco-credentials have compromised its zest for life. Its tiny 54bhp engine propels it like a pocket rocket. It's like riding a Thelwell pony with a taste for amphetamines, tackling every speed bump as if it were Beecher's Brook. The high-revving engine and semi-automated gearbox take a while to get used to – the surging gear change sets your head wobbling like a nodding dog.Originally the brainchild of Lebanese-born inventor Nicolas Hayek of Swatch, the car was set up in collaboration with Mercedes-Benz and debuted in 1998. It was an instant hit, despite the misgivings of most of the motoring press. Slow, ungainly and small – what was to like? But 770,000 customers proved them wrong. Part of the Smart's early success was that it was the first car to cash in on the new vogue for miniaturisation. Now, of course, there are dozens of competitors,  but the Smart's ability to park face on to the kerb, taking up little more space than a few mopeds, means it will always find a home on the crowded streets of our busy cities.Despite its tiny stature, the Smart feels remarkably roomy. It's not so much a shrunken car as half of a full-size car. The doors are large, the windscreen is large, the instruments are all as you'd expect. It's only when you look over your shoulder that you realise the back half is missing. The passenger seat is set 15cm further back than the driver's, which boosts shoulder room, and the boot is a split tailgate large enough for a suitcase and strong enough to sit on when open. Out of the city it copes remarkably well, though hitting 70mph on the motorway felt more like a game of chicken than driving. The entry level cars start at under £7,000, while £15,000 will buy you a convertible Brabus version, which makes it a pricey toy. But if you're a car crammer, the open roof will give you room for another limb or two…★martin.love@observer.co.uk
Rupert Murdoch's declaration, in an interview with Sky News, that he was thinking of barring Google's search engine from indexing all of News Corporation's websites, had a magnificent Canutian ring to it and got the blogosphere in a tizz. Some commentators saw it as an early sign of dementia; others interpreted it as an invitation to Microsoft to do an exclusive deal.Cory Doctorow, for example, thought Murdoch is "betting that one of Google's badly trailing competitors can be coaxed into paying for the right to index all of News Corp's online stuff if that right is exclusive. Rupert is thinking that a company such as Microsoft will be willing to pay to shore up its also-ran search tool, Bing, by buying the right to index the fraction of a fraction of a sliver of a crumb of the internet that News Corp owns".The prevailing sentiment however can be summed up as a paradox: nobody thinks that a "screw-you-Google" strategy makes sense, but they assume that Murdoch knows something they don't, and that the strategy will make sense when all is revealed. In that way, the Digger is rather like Warren Buffett: his past investment record is so good that people are wary of questioning his judgment.I have no idea what Murdoch's thinking, but I know what he's thinking about, and that's "content". Everyone's thinking about it too. Content takes many forms – news, opinion, features, audio, video, images – but they can all be lumped into one broad category: information goods.These goods cost money to produce, so the producers need to earn revenues from them. Until recently, that was relatively easy to do, which is how owners of newspapers, magazines, broadcasting networks, record labels and movie studios became rich and powerful.This happy state of affairs, however, is terminally challenged in a networked world in which people expect to access information goods for free and where perfect copies can easily – and illicitly – be made. Therefore, the Murdoch argument runs, we must return to the world as it used to be, where people are forced to pay for content.But if you want to return to the past, it makes sense to understand it, and here we run into some puzzles. Take the notion that, in the good ol' days of print, customers paid for content.Shortly before writing that sentence I was handed a copy of the LondonEvening Standard, which contained lots of "content" but was, er, free. And although this is the most conspicuous example in the UK of printed content being given away, free newspapers have been thriving for decades. The only thing that marks out theStandardfrom a provincial freesheet is that its content is of a higher class. So even in the newspaper world, lots of content has been free for ages.But surely people who buy theSun,Telegraph,MailandTimesare paying for content? Maybe they are, but we'd need to know what proportion of those publications' revenues came from cover sales rather than from advertising to know how much their readers are actually paying for the content. If newspapers had to recoup the costs of content-creation solely from retail sales, cover prices would be a lot higher and circulations correspondingly lower. So let's not kid ourselves: even in the print days consumers weren't paying anything like a realistic price for content. Why should things be any different in an online world?But what to charge? Here the print world gives contradictory advice, as a visit to www.newsstand.co.uk will show you. On the one hand, theEconomistsells there for £4.29 an issue and theNew Yorkerfor £4.92, whereasNutscosts £2.47 andZoois £2.37. Quality content clearly commands a higher price.But why isIdeal Home£6.65 per issue andWorld of Interiors£5.85? There's no real rationale here, beyond charging what different markets will bear. In the print world, in other words, higher prices could be justified by having better content – but also just by having glossier layout, heavier paper, better colour reproduction, etc.The trouble is that glossy production values don't cut much ice online. We're moving to what essayist Paul Graham calls "post-medium publishing" (bit.ly/ZBhb8), where the intrinsic quality of the content will determine what people will to pay. If the Digger really wants to charge for his stuff, it had better be good.
Psystar, the little company in Florida thatseemed for a while to be based in the back of a truckwhile it made Apple clones based on PC hardware, has lost all its claims against Apple in a legal victory that is an important ruling against would-be clone makers.The company had already filed for bankruptcy - specifically, Chapter 11 protection, which protects a business from creditors while it restructures - back in May. But in the ruling (viaBusinessWeek, viaGroklaw) Judge William Alsup ruled that Apple's end user licence agreement (EULA) on its Mac OSX software is legal and can be interpreted broadly - that when it says you can't install on non-Mac hardware, that's what it means; it doesn't mean that you could argue that it's a bit limiting on you.ThePDF of the rulingexplains that the problem comes down to this line: "Psystar has modified Mac OS X to run on its computers and has sold them to the public."Psystar had claimed that "first sale doctrine" in the US means that the buyer (Psystar) can sell something on, regardless of whether the original owner (Apple) likes it. But the modification - "Psystar then replaced the Mac OS X 'bootloader'", to quote the finding of facts - means that first sale doctrine doesn't apply any more.Bzzt. Psystar loses.Psystar infringed Apple's exclusive right to create derivative works of Mac OS X. It did this by replacing original files in Mac OS X with unauthorized software files. Specifically, it made three modifications: (1) replacing the Mac OS X bootloader with a different bootloader to enable an unauthorized copy of Mac OS X to run on Psystar's computers; (2) disabling and removing Apple kernel extension files; and (3) adding non-Apple kernel extensions. These modifications enabled Mac OS X to run on a non-Apple computer. It is undisputed that Psystar made these modifications.And finally, "Apple's licensing agreement is not unduly restrictive" - and the judge then offers an example of a licence that *is* too restrictive, from a company called Lasercomb:The language employed in the Lasercomb agreement is extremely broad. Each time Lasercomb sells its Interact program to a company and obtains that company's agreement to the noncompete language, the company is required to forego utilization of the creative abilities of all its officers, directors and employees in the area of CAD/CAM die-making software. Of yet greater concern, these creative abilities are withdrawn from the public. The period for which this anticompetitive restraint exists is ninety-nine years, which could be longer than the life of the copyright itself.(Intrguingly,Lasercomb still seems to be in business. We hope it's changed its licence.)So that's it for Psystar. But more importantly, it's the end for would-be companies aiming to make cloned Macs running on PC hardware. Apple has proved that it can sue them and it does have the law on its side.
NoticingsEveryone has a camera on their phone, but very few of us use them beyond the moments when we realise we must capture a friend throwing up or take a picture of a gig from what will look like a mile away. Noticings is a nice way of having fun with your mobile technology (you can use proper cameras, too) by taking part in a game that invites you to notice interesting little things around you that you might not normally spot: perplexing pavement markings, lost cat posters, abandoned soft toys. Sign up, then, after labelling your photos in Flikr; every day at 3pm the relevant pictures are imported to the site and the points are totted up. Random I-spy for grown-ups.Car PoolDoing for chatshows what Black Cab Sessions does for music, Car Pool is a weekly video podcast in which host Robert Llewellyn (of Kryten from Red Dwarf fame) gives someone interesting a lift and chats to them. The results are often far more fascinating than the regular high-budget, TV variety or talk show of our irony-laden era. The driving element is a bit gimmicky – although Llewellyn is often giving them a very real, free ride and talk often turns to his environmentally friendly vehicle – but it does disarm and relax his subjects. The interviewees veer from David Mitchell and Dave Gorman to psychologist Oliver James and Star Trek legend Patrick Stewart.BLOG ROLL: UNSHAVENBeard chart, as worked through by Jon Dyer in his blog.Jon DyerOne man's spectacular attempt to grow 35 different beard types, from "The Anchor" to "The Zappa" – he's up to 25.World Of BeardsA celebration of beardish delights from around the globe, including beard talk and YouTube clips.MovemberAnnual moustache-growing contest to raise funds for the Prostate Cancer Charity.TachetagsIngenious collection of Movember facial hair snaps culled from Twitter.Dirty Upper LipCelebrating the failed, wispy attempts of young men to furnish their lips with manly face fluff.British Beard ClubMembers' club for men who like real ale, Eggheads, pipes, darts and looking like psychopaths.WHAT WE LEARNED ON THE WEB THIS WEEKReturn Of The Jedi's Admiral Ackbar, now in velvet!The greatestvelvet paintings of sci-fi icons everDon't sweatthe techniqueWhy everycountry has a different plugNeil Tennantknows a lot about Peruvian weather systemsWhat to buyyour favourite egotist for ChristmasWhat to dowith stale breadWhy baconis better than loveWhat Obama'swearing todayThe Coen brothers'best momentsThe funniestYouTube comments of all time
Happy birthday – and look, one of your friends (who knows what a geek you are) havs bought you that super-specialised Zigmatroid, the gadget that is so useful for untightening the kerfuffle nut on your Xbox. (Stay with us, it'll make sense.) They're really hard to get hold of - how kind of them.Oh, and look, another gift from another of your thoughtful friends. Interesting packaging, it's a....nother Zigmatroid.You've now got two Zigmatroids, when in all the world you can only ever need one. But you also know that both your friends are linked into your Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, Bebo, Myspace, eBay and pretty much every other account you've ever created. So if you put your spare Zigmatroid up for sale on eBay or wherever, you'll insult not just one but both of them.Trouble with the Zigmatroid being that it takes up valuable space in your already cramped residence. You really could do with getting shot of it.What do you do?
Unsigned British bands could reach the top of the charts, through a new music download site that has won approval from the Official Chart Company to register its tracks as sales.Ooizit.com, which went live this week, costs £9.97 per month to bands, which can promote and sell their music direct to fans through links to Facebook and MySpace pages. The artists keep all of the royalties.The company waspreviously featured on the PDA blog in February. At the time, it said it aimed to hit 250,000 users by the end of this year. The full launch has apparently been delayed, as the company claims the same number of unsigned bands as members now - 1,000 - as it did them. [Update:a representative for Ooizit says "the site has been closed for much of this year to allow development which is why the number of users hasn't dramatically increased since February. However user numbers are now increasing every day."]However one of its members, rapper Alex Blood, has already used it as a launch pad and gone on to tour with Mark Ronson and Jay-Z and attracted major label interest."There are a lot of elements to gaining a place in the Official Charts, from selling enough records through to ensuring your tracks meet the eligibility rules," said Tom Fearn, the site's founder. "However, with OOiZiT.com we make this process simple, easy and ensure that all eligible sales count in the Official Charts."The 27-year-old former DJ is a former digital marketing manager for Daily Mail &amp; General Trust. He says he was inspired to start OOiZiT.com when he saw how music sales shifted online over the past five years, and wanted to find a way to harness that trend to help new acts."I see myself as a thorn in the major labels' side, a kind of David to their Goliath, rather than one of the horsemen of the digital apocalypse," Fearn said. "I think ultimately the labels will adapt and survive. Realistically, many OOiZiT success stories will go on to be signed by majors. But while that process is ongoing, it's great to think we can wrest some of the control away from the EMIs and Sony BMGs of this world."Fearn said in February that in five years' time his aim is "to be the number one resource for new, unsigned UK music artists. We will have instigated a UK number one in the download charts and be embarking on other versions of the site for other countries and their local markets."Legal downloads were included in official singles and albums charts in 2005, in the face of flagging physical sales. It was agreed that the charts had to recognise new methods of delivery to the consumer in order to keep the charts relevant. Downloads now far overshadow physical sales of CD singles, which have all but disappeared as a sales medium.
Two German men who killed an actor in 1990 are suing the charity behind the online encyclopaedia Wikipedia, claiming that its inclusion of detail of their crimes infringes their right to privacy.The case has become an instant online cause celebre – with one lawyer saying that the integrity of history itself is at stake – because it ranges the US's First Amendment, which guarantees freedom of speech, against German privacy and criminal laws, which dictate that after a certain period a crime is "spent" and cannot be referred to. The UK has similar rules on the reporting of lesser crimes.The two men, who cannot be named here because the Guardian is available in Germany, became infamous for the killing, for which they were sentenced to life in prison in 1993. They were released in 2007 and 2008. But Alexander Stopp, the lawyer for the two men, noted that Germany's courts allow a criminal's name to be withheld in news reports once they have served a prison term and a set period has expired."They should be able to go on and be resocialised, and lead a life without being publicly stigmatised" for their crime, Stopp told the New York Times. "A criminal has a right to privacy, too, and a right to be left alone."German editors of Wikipedia, which is available in multiple languages around the world, have already removed the killers' names from the German-language version about the victim, Walter Sedlmayr. But Stopp has also filed suit in German courts to demand that the Wikimedia Foundation, which funds and runs Wikipedia, remove their names from the English-language article.In fact Wikipedia administrators – the unpaid group that helps oversee the running of the site –have been discussing the challenge for more than a year. But there is deep disagreement about whether the individuals' German-determined right to privacy overrides the US First Amendment.The Electronic Frontier Foundation, an online civil liberties group,said in a bulletin on Thursdaythat "he who controls the past, controls the future" – intentionally echoing George Orwell's 1984, in which the government controls the records of the past in order to control the population.Jennifer Granick, a lawyer for the EFF, wrote: "This slogan from Orwell's Ministry of Truth is anathema under US law, which takes it as an article of faith that people must be allowed to publish truthful information about historical events. A foreign power should not be able to censor publications in the United States, regardless of whether doing so suits the country's domestic law."At stake is the integrity of history itself. If all publications have to abide by the censorship laws of any and every jurisdiction just because they are accessible over the global internet, then we will not be able to believe what we read, whether about Falun Gong (censored by China), the Thai king (censored under lèse majesté) or German murders. Wikipedia appears ready to fight for write once, read anywhere history, and EFF will be watching this fight closely."The English-language Wikipedia article about Sedlmayr notes that the details of the killers' names are available from a number of online sources in Germany.Floyd Abrams, a prominent First Amendment lawyer who has represented the New York Times, told the paper that every judge on the US Supreme Court would agree that the Wikipedia article "is easily, comfortably protected by the First Amendment". But Germany's courts have come up with a different balance between the right to privacy and the public's right to know, Abrams said, and "once you're in the business of suppressing speech, the quest for more speech to suppress is endless".The German law springs from a decision of Germany's highest court in 1973, which has led to publications there referring to people whose convictions are "spent" are as, for example, "the perpetrator or, Mr L"But the German duo may discover that their attempts to remove their names from the electronic record has precisely the opposite result – a phenomenon known online as the "Streisand effect", after the singer, whose attempts to remove pictures of her beach house from online records outraged people, who then copied the pictures and distributed them over the internet.Michael Godwin, the general counsel of the Wikimedia Foundation, said the foundation "doesn't edit content at all, unless we get a court order from a court of competent jurisdiction … if our German editors have chosen to remove the names of the murderers from their article on Walter Sedlmayr, we support them in that choice." But, he added: "The English-language editors have chosen to include the names of the killers, and we support them in that choice."Wikipedia, as one of the top-ranking sites for information from many searches, is often a key source of information about events or people. It has reined in editing on biographies of people who are still alive after a number of embarrassing incidents where people's details were altered to create libels. And when David Rohde, a New York Times reporter, was seized by the Taliban in Afghanistan, the co-founder of Wikipedia, Jimmy Wales, personally appealed to the site's editors to keep details about it quiet. Yet the information was available on other smaller sites.Wikipedia has more than 12m articles, including 3m in English, but has just 30 staff – and Godwin comprises its entire legal staff.The killers' lawyer contacted Wikimedia about both men, citing cases since 2006 that had suppressed publication of their names in Germany. He has won a default judgment against Wikimedia for one of the men in a German court, and last month sent the foundation a letter regarding the other, whose case against Wikimedia is pending. "The German courts, including several courts of appeals, have held that our client's name and likeness cannot be used any more in publication regarding Sedlmayr's death," he wrote.Wikimedia told Stopp it questioned the relevance of any judgments in the German courts, since, it said, it has no operations in Germany and no assets there.
As James May is currently proving on BBC2, old-school toys are fun and packed with charm. That won't come as any surprise, of course, to anyone who's played any of Lego's forays into the video game world.Combining famous movie franchises – Star Wars, Batman, Indiana Jones – with plastic bricks is not an obvious marriage but it's been both a successful and joyous one. The games have been creative, good natured, genuinely funny, smart and challenging and even encourage co-operative play.If that sounds like a set up for a "but" you'd be wrong. Even the fact that Lego Indiana Jones 2 is based around The Kingdom of the Crystal Skull shouldn't be cause for alarm. This sequel both maintains the company's reputation for thoroughly enjoyable gaming and even ups the ante in terms of the bells and whistles.The subtitle "The Adventure Continues" is something of a misnomer. While the main story here is a suitably tongue-in-plastic-cheek look at the last Indy movie, the makers have also gone back to the first three films covered in the previous game. It's not a backwards step by any means. The Raiders of the Lost Ark, Temple of Doom and Last Crusade sections feature entirely new content and new challenges. Even the navigation is different. Instead of the central college-themed hub, each title gets its own movie-themed central point, and each of these is packed with areas to explore, puzzles to solve and things to collect.The tweaks are also first rate. The two player mode no longer requires both players to be in the same area, and kicks in with an excellent split-screen if you wander off in different directions. It's a simple addition but one that's bordering on genius, with the dividing line also providing a "compass" to find the other player should a puzzle require it.Better than that though is the level builder. While there's clearly an argument about why play with virtual Lego when you could play with the real thing, this is a beautifully crafted addition that allows incredible creativity via an instinctive system that leaves even Little Big Planet standing.In gaming terms, the delightful Lego Indiana Jones 2 is about as far removed from the Modern Warfare sequel as it's possible to get, and we're not just talking scattered bricks instead of blood-splatters. Both though are undoubted five star games. Things bode very well then for next year's Lego Harry Potter ...
There are certain pursuits I'd never have experienced were it not for video games: for example, those of nation-building, prostitute-murdering, and being a paperboy.Shaun White's Snowboarding: World Stage, a sequel to last year's World Tour, introduces me to snowboarding, which incredibly is done for fun by assorted bodacious dudes across the globe. Much as with the above, I'm in no position to tell you whether this game is a realistic simulation; it is, however, good uncomplicated arcade fun.The plot, as advanced by cheery and mercifully short cut scenes, is simple: you take control of a bunch of young, presumably Pepsi Max-drinking snowboarders, who have all serendipitously been brought under the protective aegis of Shaun White's friendship. You play as them – and, later, Shaun himself – at a variety of snowboarding events around the world, picking up ranking points as you go, until you reach the position of No 1 snowboarder in the world and thus the greatest human ever.Shaun White, incidentally, is a famous snowboarder.Courses are split into different disciplines, such as the simple downhill slalom, rail-riding, or gravity defying big air. Stood atop your Wii Balance Board (if you have one), and utilising various flicks of the Wii remote, quite remarkable and death-defying tricks can be done – from a simple "melon" to a spinal-trauma-threatening "barrel". The game generates a good sense of speed, and, though there is a decent degree of arm-flailing involved, pulling off a flying squirrel as you hurtle down a mountain is undeniably satisfying, if not something I'd recommend trying in real life.The cartoony, effective graphics depict a series of locations in a parallel universe world where everyone cares about snowboarding. These include Paris, where you can hurtle down towards a giant, purple Eiffel Tower, and London's Parliament Square, where legitimate political protest may have been banned but taking to the half pipe certainly hasn't.You reach these events from a menu screen set in an airport departure lounge, where your kids hang out, flirt and meet new snowboarders as you progress through the game and up your carbon footprint. Each boarder has his own special skill, and you can also select another boarder to enable a "friend power", such as balance or speed, so there's some degree of strategy matching up riders to courses.The game isn't without its flaws. It's certainly aimed at the younger end of the market, as indicated by the gang of flirting teens you control, who say things like "yeah!" and "sick!" when they complete a successful run. The controls are relatively simplistic, particularly if you're without a pricey Balance Board, with only a limited oeuvre of moves (though you can create your own if you have a Wii Motion Plus), and courses can feel samey. Disappointingly, it's impossible to injure your characters, even if you land on a metal rod on your back at 100 miles an hour, and the selection of in-game music is limited and repeats quickly – I hope you like Blondie and Interpol. The graphics, though mainly fit for purpose, have a few embarrassing moments, like the chunky pixellated "fans" who look like crude cardboard cutouts positioned to make snowboarding seem popular.To balance that, the multiplayer mode is good fun, with split-screen cooperative and competitive modes, though only one lucky soul can stand on the plastic Wii board at a time. You also get to name your team and pick from a choice of logos, such as a demented beaver, which counts for a lot in my house.As sporting celebrity tie-ins go, Shaun White's Snowboarding: World Stage may not be in the Tony Hawk category, but it's decent throwaway fun, particularly in multiplayer, and may be the best chance to experience snow this Christmas.
YouTube is introduce support for 1080p high-definition (HD) video from next week, allowing film shot in HD quality to be uploaded and viewed on the site.The official YouTube blogexplainsthat the new maximum - whichdoublesalmostdoubles (thanks @nevali) the number of lines on a video from the present maximum of 720p - is being introduced as consumer cameras have become better and better, with more HD quality.Existing videos that have been uploaded in 1080p, which presently only appear in 720p quality, are being re-encoded for the higher-quality version, says Billy Biggs, a software engineer at the Google-owned video company.Anaccompanying video shows the difference(included at a smaller size below) between the different qualities - though it is slow to load because 1080p video requires substantially more storage than lower-quality formats.The introduction of more high-quality video will increase the friction between Google, and particularly YouTube, and various internet service providers in the US, where "net neutrality" has become a sore point. Some ISPs and telephone companies argue that companies which send large amounts of data - particularly video - over their networks should pay to ensure that it does not block others from sending their data. Google and other companies contend that it is the telephone companies' and ISPs' responsibility to maintain the standards of their networks to meet growing demand for high-volume data transmission.
A couple of weeks agomy post on the airport sequence in Modern Warfare 2sparked an interesting debate about the nature of morality in videogames. A reader named Candleberry argued that as the consequences of your actions effect only pointless pixels on a TV screen, no decision you make has any moral complexity whatsoever. I disagree; it is possible to set someone a completely hypothetical moral problem, and - in order to appreciate and untangle it - they'll need to go through the same ontological and semantic thought processes as they would when facing the real thing. What we do in games doesn't matter, but they make us think anyway.So with this in mind, what's the most morally dubious thing you've ever done in a videogame? It could be an intentional part of the game design, or it could be some horrible way you've chosen to exploit the mechanic for your own sick purposes.There must have been times you've thought to yourself, 'Lord help me, I shouldn't be doing this'. Well, look, we're not going to tell anyone else. So please share. And to get us started, here are some of my favourites...Ganging up on the Ninja in Bruce LeeThis is a soft one, but it's the first time I remember subverting a game for transgressive laughs. In Datasoft's 1984 platformer, the eponymous character could be controlled by one player, while another operated a portly fighter named The Green Yamo who was meant to work in partnership with a smaller ninja chap to thwart Lee. It was much more fun, however, for the players to team up against the teeny assassin, kicking him around the screen then watching as he staggered to his feet, never once reacting to the treachery of his supposed cohort. Still makes me snigger like an eleven-year-old even now.Smacking the creaturesIn 1996 a Cambridge-based development studio named Millennium Interactive released the world's most advanced artificial life simulator,Creatures, in which you hatched and cared for groups of lovable and intelligent beings. In order to teach the complex AI beasties about boundaries within the virtual environment, you were able to smack them via a mouse button. What did we do in the Edge office when this game first booted up? We smacked them constantly, absolutely without remorse, until they were quivering wrecks, unable to even move. That was wrong.The wet SimsOn a similar theme to the above, did you make your sims wet themselves on purpose? Actually, let's reverse that - the first few times you played this game, did you ever actually get them to the bathroom?Pointless starting fights with passers-by in GTA IVHmm, right yes, I'm in the middle of an important mission... must carry out this assassination with pinpoint timing and... wait, that guy over there in the plaid jacket is looking at me funny, I'm going to pointlessly take him out first. And so on for forty hours.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox. What are your weekend gaming plans? Planning some moreModern Warfare 2perchance?
Interesting times for Xbox Live, the online service for the Xbox 360. This week saw a user record set, with more than2 million users connected at once. As you may have guessed this total was hugely bolstered by Modern Warfare 2, with nearly half of the 2 million users playing Activision's new shooter. No real surprises then. Actually what I'd love to see is figures for the game with the lowest number of players at any one point. Is anyone still playingBanjo Kazooie Nuts &amp; Boltsonline for example?Next weekwill also see the launch of Facebook, Twitter and Last.FM on Xbox Live. Expect those tweets and status updates to be dominated by Modern Warfare 2 then. I've been on the test service for these and while the integration isn't quite as slick as I imagined - the need to login to separate applications means they all feel a little detached from the core Live offer - you can see the benefit if you are in between games or undecided what to do next.Xbox owners then, what do you think? Your friends lists dominated by MW2 players? Any excitement about Facebook and co appearing on Live next week?
The great thing about Google is that it scares the heck out of practically everybody in a wide range of IT and media businesses, and it looks as though the phone companies could be next to feel the heat. Google is already in the phone business with its Android software, which delivers customers to Gmail, Google Maps, and other services while opening up the potential for zillions more profitable advertising opportunities. Now the Big G's blog hasofficially bought Gizmo5, and its team will join the GrandCentral acquisition now known as Google Voice.Gizmo5 is a small "softphone" company that enables its 6m registered users to make voice calls over the net (VoIP), and according to reports, it was in the process of beingbought by Skype. Gizmo5 calls go via a server rather than using a peer-to-peer network like Skype, but Google knows all about running servers than can handle hundreds of millions of users."Google is set to become your new phone company, perhaps reducing your phone bill to zilch in the process. Seriously," trumpetedWired News. It's not going to happen next week, of course, but that's what we said when Google bought Android.* Meanwhile the American phone companies are still fighting one another. One example is the web page where "AT&amp;T Sets the Record Straight on Verizon Ads". It says:As the US market leader in wireless data service, we typically don't respond to competitors' advertising. However, some recent ads from Verizon are so blatantly false and misleading, that we want to set the record straight about AT&amp;T's wireless data coverage.I assume this is a reference to the Verizon advert,There's A Map For That, which takes off Apple's iPhone ads. AT&amp;T's argument is that it has an Edge (2.5G) service in places where Verizon's 3G map implies no service. (For an independent and unofficial "advert" at YouTube, seeAT&amp;T — iPhone Hell.)Verizon has just launched the Motorola Droid smartphone, based on Google Android 2.0, with aniDon'tadvert that highlights some of the iPhone's limitations.*DigiTimes in Taiwanhas published news and a nice table of some forthcoming Intel chips, including three 32nm dual-core Arrandale (Calpella platform) processors for ultra-thin notebooks in the first half of next year. The story adds: "Intel also plans to announce 32nm CPUs codenamed Clarkdale for the desktop PC market in January, including Core i5-670 and Core i5-661, priced from US$176-284 in thousand unit tray-quantities."* Finally, Google announced a new programming language called Go, while apparently overlooking the fact that somebody else already hada programming language called Go!Some took this as Google arrogantly trampling the small-fry underfoot because, after all,Google is evil. But it seems more likely that Google just didn't notice. Perhaps it simply forgot to search usingBing, where it's the top hit….
The arrival of Orange as the second network in the UK able to sell the iPhone has not dented sales of the Apple handset through its original UK partner, O2.But Matthew Key, chairman and chief executive of Telefónica Europe - the group which owns O2 UK - has admitted that the wider availability of the iPhone will have an impact on the growth of the UK's largest mobile phone operator.He also hit out at Orange's decision to restrict its iPhone users to a 750MB a month "fair usage" cap – even if they are connecting their device through wi-fi – by saying: "We have got an unlimited data tariff on our iPhone, which we think is the way to go".He said: "We don't think customers should need to understand, or worry about, what a gigabyte or a megabyte is."Orange brought O2's two-year exclusive deal with Apple to an end on Monday as it started selling the iPhone to UK customers. Vodafone has also signed a deal with the American technology giant, and will start selling the phone in the first few weeks of next year.Orange reckons that ithad sold 30,000 iPhones by 4pmon that first day, but Key said O2 had not seen a drop-off in sales on its network."There has been an almost imperceptible change in our volumes," he said. "Almost no change as far as the gross (additions) we are putting on, which we were quite surprised about as well."Having the iPhone to itself for so long, however, has helped O2 outperform its rivals in the UK. Its third-quarter results, released today, showed it was the only UK network to increase revenues in the three months to the end of September, up 2%. Vodafone, by contrast, saw UK revenues decline 4.8%, and T-Mobile dropped 14.6%.O2 has 21 million British customers, having added 292,061 in the most recent quarter. In the same period, Orange added 257,000 new customers, Vodafone added 147,000, with T-Mobile adding just 20,000.Over the last 12 months, O2 has grabbed a near 70% share of all new customers, but Key admitted that the wider availability of the iPhone, and aggressive marketing and discounting by rivals – especially Vodafone, which is trying to ditch its image among consumers as being expensive – will dent its performance in future."Would I expect it to continue to outperform the market, from a market-share perspective? Yes. Will it be to the degree that we have seen? I think we will do well to do that," he said.Key suggests Orange is short-changing customers by introducing the 750MB per month cap on the iPhone. O2 has what it terms an "excessive usage policy", which bars users from  capacity-hungry services like peer-to-peer file sharing, but it does not specify a monthly data limit.While there is little price difference between the iPhone with Orange and with O2, Orange has tried to draw a distinction between the quality of the networks themselves, principally with its "You're Covered" advertising campaign."Network is important," admitted Key. "And has always been important, but we think that in this new space of smartphones, just as important are things like the tariff. When you look at what Orange has done with the iPhone, they have a data limit. It is not unlimited data, which we think is just not the right thing to do, and which won't encourage usage."While it may have lost its exclusive grip on the iPhone, O2 does have a short-term exclusive deal with Palm, which makes it the only network selling its Palm Pre device in the UK, In the US, however, sales have been sluggish after an strong launch in the summer. Northeast Securities analyst Ashok Kumarsays there has been a "substantial decline"in recent sales of the Pre through its exclusive US network partner Sprint.Key refused to give details of the number of Palm Pres sold in the UK since it was launched last month, but said: "We are very happy with the [sales] volumes, and we are seeing an extremely low level of returns, and few calls into the call centres. Once customers get the Palm Pre, they love it."
A new patent filing by Apple holds hints of a "tablet" computer that the company is widely expected to release early next year at the urging of record companies and book publishers.The filing -released on the US Patent Office websiteon Thursday - describes an "ink manager" which receives "ink information entered at a pen-based input/display device" and turns them into "strokes" which are passed to a handwriting recognition system.That suggests a pen-based device - rather like Apple's unsuccessful version of the 1990s, the Newton - but which is sensitive to handwriting-style entry.That, in turn, may point to a computer with a normal-sized screen but which dispenses with the standard keyboard, and instead takes its input by direct contact with the screen.There has been increasing expectation that Apple will release a "tablet" style device for use in the home which will let people control other devices such as music, or see album covers in greater detail on a larger screen.Record labels areunderstood to have lobbied Appletobuild such a deviceas a method to boost music sales, to both sides' benefit because it would boost sales of the devices and of digital downloads.
Okay, we're two weeks behind. It's okay, it's okay, we'll catch up. It's not like much has happened over the last week or so, it it? Just the launch of a $300m game and all that.Anyway, as mad as it now seems, there was a time before Modern Warfare 2. And here is a dispatch from that innocent age, when the talk of the town was not kill streaks and ridiculous Russian terror plots, it was FIFA and PES and impressive Halloween costumes... Ah, simple days.Come with us now, back in time - we promise you won't have to shoot a single screaming civilian on the way...It was Monday. The sun shone and the wind rattled through the Chatterbox. Discussion almost literally 'kicked off' over the latest iteration of perennial football favourite Pro Evolution Soccer. Whilst some of us made it out our houses over the preceding weekend, many regulars had done the decent thing and play virtual football all weekend with each other. Here are the thoughts:AndyJ23sat politely on the fence in the style of a BBC foodbal pundit: "Having played FIFA (360), it's quite remarkable how different both games are. I can see why people love FIFA, so easy to pull off skill moves to earn your player space and the obvious licensing agreements. The ball feels heavier and probably more realistic on PES. Both are great games in their own ways."Alimantando:"Listening to Worv and Benny gibber on over their voice thingies unaware I could hear every word was comedy gold. Do you kiss your mothers with those mouths boys? Overall I'm enjoying it. The passing started to gel last night and the lack of lag is superb."CBPodge:"Putting in a completely new system unlike one in any other game and explaining it with a pop up of particularly bad pidgin English is a fantastic idea, and is what makes PES brilliant."EnglishRed:"Makes you realise just how amateurish 09 was, why did we put up with it?"The other game of the week was Borderlands, Gearbox's post apocalyptic gunathon. Perhaps something of a surprise hit, Borderland's flamboyance appealed as much as the prospect of a better gun just around the corner:Matt123:"I picked up a repeater pistol that only did about 60 damage per shot but could fire all 25 bullets in its clip in one second. Needless to say it wasn't very accurate......"Rusty James:"Skagzilla - Sounds like the last option in a provincial night club."RobLindsay:"Co-op play at it's best."BeardofBees:"Fortunately, I've yet to meet much opposition still minded to argue with me after taking 20 rockets to the face in five seconds."PS3 owners seemed to be lapping up their Trophies as much as the 360 chaps were hunting down Achievement points. CBPodge asked us what were the easiest trophies we've been awarded? Finding the hidden flowers on PSN indie darling Flower was suggested by Killerbee (coincidence?). Silveryfox surprised no-one, giving us an easy Wipeout HD trophy. In the absence of a monocled xylophone playing astrologist, we took their advice.There was a passionate discussion of soup; its benefits, disadvantages and whether or not it should constitute a meal in its own right.Tuesday's discussion of the War Museum raised a few laughs, mostly down to government advice on what to do if a nuclear bomb landed a few feet in front of you. In case you don't feel like dying immediately, it is recommended that you remove the doors of your house from their hinges and prop them up at a 45 degree angle to the blast. If only Fallout 3 had featured more doors leaning three sheets to the wind, perhaps it wouldn't have been such a wasteland. Beard of Bees had an easy favourite from the exhibits:"'Official notice is hereby given that on behalf of his majesty the King, we are now at war with the nation of…' and a blank space where somebody had handwritten 'GERMANY'."Alfienoakes has also visited the museum and offered more sombre memories:"I was welling up at one point in there - It's not the big stuff, you've seen all that before, it was stuff like seeing kids' drawings, and some little lad's clockwork bear - that did it for me."Tuesday's chat then prolapsed into how much each of us would spend on items of clothing. Many baulked at the thought of spending cash in Primark or TK Maxx, but everyone seemed to agree their prices were about right. The Chatterbox is not the height of fashion.Wednesday started well with Simian posing the question: "What was your favourite bit of any game?". I'll let the responses talk for themselves:Gettingnervous:"Gun on the PS2, when doing the ranching missions and all of a sudden the stirring music would start and by God, I felt like a rooting, tooting cowboy."[We've all been there - Keef]FerrisSaved:"The first mission on COD2 on the 360 was an absolute joy. In the snow in Stalingrad and you come out of some trenches to find yourself in the middle of a group of 40 or so Russians attacking a building."McBegbie:"MoH (The Original) - The Normandy landing, one of the best opening moments in a game"Killerbee:"Flower - in the wind level where you start racing through the canyon on a gust of wind, collecting hundreds of blooms which makes the music erupt into a glorious symphony of timbre and harmony."Automatic:"Gears of War - I mean, who doesn't love the chainsaw bayonet?"Beach:"Surviving the first Left 4 Dead finale. I remember the first time and all four of us made it onto the helicopter and as it pulled away a rampaging tank beat its chest in fury as we escaped his clutches."StainlessStyle:"Emerging out of the sewers in Oblivion. It hurt my eyes in a realistic fashion as I was playing it on the fella's projector. Much brightness and blinking."CunningStunt was not happy with his housemates, who had heard his elder neighbour's screams of terror at being robbed and did nothing. Many of the blog were quick to condemn, however a few were less sure what they themselves would have done in the same situation. How do you know what you would do?RobLindsay took this opportunity to reveal he keeps a sword next to his bed in case his house is ever broken into. This caused more furore in the 'box, but as ingenious as we are, we eventually came up with some more pragmatic solutions to the problem. Advice included dead body disposal and keeping a superficially decorative cosh next to the bed so you can bash an intruder with it. Morality is nothing, it's all about Law.The rest of the day was involved stories of house breaking and burglary. Any would-be thief reading has plenty of time to prepare for a naked computer gamer caught somewhere between drunk and hungover having been pushed out of bed by their Mrs to confront an intruder.[Christ, none of us want to see THAT on a Crime Watch reconstruction - Keef]Thursday became Modern Warfare controversy day, with the news that gamers will be given the chance to play as an undercover agent, helping terrorists kill innocent civilians. Many felt uncomfortable with this and the outcry that would inevitably occur in the press. It certainly provoked a long discussion with many contributors sharing their thoughts. Is this good for games?Automatic:"I'm looking forward to this and I'm glad it's willing to challenge the norms a little by having such controversial ideas."Smike:"There's nothing like a huge 'Ban this sick filth!' outrage in the press to ensure that sales (which would have been massive anyway) go through the roof from now until Christmas next year."ImperfectRex:"There is no shortage of disgust of terrorist actions. We don't need interactivity to be disgusted."All of this was nicely rounded off with much discussion about the malleable nature of fact.[Wow, has everyone been reading Wittgenstein? - Keef]Friday was rather quiet by the usual Chatterbox standards, strung out mostly with more discussion of PES and Borderlands. The Chatterboxers discussed their best Halloween outfits and plans for the forthcoming pagan celebrations. Plenty have dressed up as one of the shambling undead (no surprises there) but dressing as a giant vibrator, topped off with a girl sitting on top of you wins the Best In Show rosette. Well done Simian!Quote of the week"I just liked the idea of Nazi poster boy Superman settling back in a huge armchair listening to the Nibelungen at max volume."BeardofBeesOther quotes"Down with soup and it's poor levels of fillupness."Limni"You might get away with a fart but you'll never get away with an eggy fart."Mollocate
A software engineer who was respected in&nbsp;academia, industry, and government, John&nbsp;Buxton, who has died aged 75, gained world renown. He made fundamental scientific contributions to computer simulation, programming language design and software implementation technology. He was founding professor of computer science at both Warwick University and King's College London. He worked for the British and US governments, and spent many years in&nbsp;the computer industry.Buxton was born in Shipley, West Yorkshire, the eldest child of John and Laura Buxton. His father worked for the Yorkshire Evening Post and later became its London editor. After secondary education at Bradford grammar school, Buxton went to Trinity College, Cambridge, where he graduated in mathematics with physics in 1955. He&nbsp;then worked in the De Havilland aircraft company's guided weapons division. In 1958 he married Moira O'Brien, a programmer with IBM, who advised him to "try computers". He took her advice, and never looked back.The following year he joined the British Iron and Steel Research Association, where he developed a simulation program that enabled industrial processes to be modelled on a computer. In 1961 he moved to IBM, where he developed another simulation system, CSL (control and simulation language). This became a major product, and established Buxton's reputation as&nbsp;a&nbsp;software wunderkind.In 1962 he became a lecturer at the Institute of Computer Science at the University of London. There he collaborated with a team led by Christopher Strachey, at Cambridge University, to invent a language called CPL (combined programming language). In 1965 the project lost momentum when Strachey took up a chair in computer science at Oxford University. Strachey was notoriously reluctant to publish unfinished work and it was largely through Buxton's urging that the CPL Reference Manual was completed and published. Few modern programming languages do not have a&nbsp;strand of CPL in their DNA.A new term entered the computer lexicon – the "software crisis". After some celebrated disasters, programmers in academia and industry had lost confidence in their ability to write very large computer programs. In October 1968, the first international software engineering conference was held in Garmisch, southern Germany, under the auspices of the Nato science committee. Among more than 50 international delegates, Buxton's was a&nbsp;rare voice of calm. He counselled that "99% of computers work tolerably satisfactorily".This pragmatism was the hallmark of his career. After another spell in industry, he returned to academia to become the founding professor of computer science at the recently established Warwick University in 1968. At 34, he was the youngest in the country. He was not enamoured with "theoretical" computer science, but recognised its potential and made some key appointments. The department became a leading theoretical centre.With considerable charm, Buxton was catapulted into senior management at Warwick, acting as one of a team revising the university statutes, including the election of departmental chairs in place of permanent heads of&nbsp;department. This was a time of upheaval at the university, then beset by&nbsp;student dissent.For the next several years, he oscillated between academia, industry and government. In 1979 he took leave of absence to work in the US for the Pentagon on the new defence programming language Ada, while holding a chair at Harvard University. So much globetrotting cost Buxton, to&nbsp;his chagrin, the chairmanship of his department at Warwick University.In 1984 he moved to King's College London to establish its department of computer science. He was increasingly drawn into government science policy, serving as director of systems engineering at the Department of Trade and Industry.He and Moira enjoyed living in and restoring Tudor buildings, taking up residence in Hanwell castle, Oxfordshire. In retirement, spent at the Guildhall in Eye, Suffolk, Buxton served as chairman of Room Underwriting Systems, a software provider for the Lloyd's insurance market. As technical vice-president of the British Computer Society, he was frequently called on as an expert witness in software disputes. He is survived by his wife, their two sons and two daughters.• John Noel Buxton, software engineer, born 25 December 1933; died 3 November 2009
In a surprise move, Intel has agreed to pay AMD $1.25 billion and to abide by an agreed set of rules for its business conduct in return for settling their long-running legal complaints. AMD will drop "all pending litigation" including cases the US and Japan, and "withdraw all of its regulatory complaints worldwide" -- though this won't stop any government cases. The two chipmakers also renewed their patent cross-licensing technology agreement for five years.Intel'spress releasesaid:In a joint statement the two companies commented, "While the relationship between the two companies has been difficult in the past, this agreement ends the legal disputes and enables the companies to focus all of our efforts on product innovation and development."AMD chief executive officer Dirk Meyer said in a statement: "Today marks the beginning of a new era... one that confirms that the game has changed for AMD."AMD has been shopping its claims around the world's anti-trust regulators for many years, but with increasing success. The European Commission punished Intel with the largest antitrust fine in its history (€1bn) for "anticompetitive practices" such as "illegal rebates" -- a ruling that Intel is appealing.Recently, New York attorney general Andrew Cuomo jumped on the bandwagon by filing a case in the US. (Intel is based in California while, coincidentally, AMD's Global Foundries spin-off is building a very expensive new chip factory in New York State.)AMD has had liquidity problems and has reported losses in its last 12 financial quarters.The Wall Street Journalnoted that: "The settlement was sorely needed for AMD, which has struggled with mounting losses and high debt levels related to its acquisition of graphics-chip maker ATI Technologies."Some analysts see the settlement as being to Intel's benefit.Bloombergreported:"AMD is going to be perceived as the big winner here, but the bigger winner is Intel," said Hans Mosesmann, an analyst at New York-based Raymond James &amp; Associates. "Instead of writing a check for $10 billion over time, they write one for $1 billion.""AMD gets cash, which is nice. But this doesn't change anything," Mosesmann said. "Their chips are not faster or cheaper all of a sudden."The settlement is unlikely to make much difference to consumers: both companies make processors that run the same standard operating systems and consumers are generally unable to tell the difference between them. However, restricting Intel's ability to offer discounts and rebates to PC manufacturers could lead to an increase in effective chip prices.Higher prices might enable AMD to stop selling chips at a loss, but should also increase Intel's profits. That, and saving perhaps $100m a year in legal expenses over the next 5-10 years.
Bebo is cutting jobs at its UK operation and freezing commissions from its web TV production arm, which has been responsible for groundbreaking shows including KateModern.The social networking website has been forced to make cutbacks to its UK, US and Australian operations following an announcement by its parent company, AOL, that about100 employees from across its total operation would be cut.Bebo has entered into a consultation process with UK staff, with existing web TV shows continuing to run until current commissions finish up at the end of the year. Bebo's online TV shows have included KateModern, Sofia's Diary, The Secret World of Sam King and The Gap Year.The company employs around 20 staff in the UK and it is understood the team will be cut back to a minimum.AOL, which has come in for criticism overthe $850m it paid to acquire Bebo in 2008, admitted today that to drive profitability it has to refocus the business."We are in the process of re-aligning the Bebo business and need to make sure that our resources are aligned with our new business mode in order to execute effectively against our future vision and stay competitive," said a spokeswoman for AOL. "We are therefore required to make some difficult decisions about the future of our organisation and its people in order to stay competitive." The company added that it may return to web TV productions but admitted that, with a greatly reduced staff count, any plans were now on the back burner.Bebo claims not to have lost money on any of its web TV ventures: all have been co-funded by sponsors or advertisers from the commissioning stage."Bebo remains a start-up at heart and as such remains a relatively small team with limited resource and in order to execute against its future vision it must focus its efforts," said the spokeswoman."Its focus now and for the foreseeable future is to augment its core functionality, rapidly innovating in a number of key areas to further enhance its user experience and increase its user base, and commit its attention to better understanding its users, amongst other things."The cutbacks at Bebo's UK operation follow the appointment in July ofStephane Panier to the position of global chief executive for the company.Panier took over 14 months after Joanna Shields, who engineered the sale of Bebo to AOL,relinquished the role. Shields left AOL in May and remerged in a new digital media venture with Elisabeth Murdoch, the chief executive of Shine,in September.The wider restucture of AOL, spearheaded by chairman and chief executive Tim Armstrong, comes asthe company prepares to demerge from parent Time Warner through a stock market flotation.In a Securities and Exchange Commission filing AOL said that it is making provision for up to $200m in restructuring charges in the first half of next year,according to MediaMemo blog today. It has been speculated that up to 1,000 employees could go when AOL is floated and demerged from Time Warner.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox. What do you think about theXbox Live ban for modded consoles?
Thenews came outyesterday but the effect will be ongoing - Microsoft have banned up to 1 million modded Xbox 360s from access to the online Xbox Live service. Owners of the modded consoles - used to play pirated games - will still be able to play offline but this is an interesting move from Microsoft. For a start the timing is everything. It can't be a coincidence that this news was announced the day after the release of Modern Warfare 2 - the game certain to be the most played title on Xbox Live for a long time to come.The ban is also the next step in the games industry's battle against piracy. Stopping modding consoles and cracked games is probably impossible but barring access to online services is potentially a huge deterrent to piracy. This is especially true on Xbox 360 where so many games are built around online play.What do you think then? Own a modded console and unhappy with ban? Or is this good news for owners of legitimate consoles?
A slightly longer than usual briefing... got a big breakfast to read it by?&bull; it's the Technology Guardian supplement today - I'm looking at thestate of web security, and we also look atonline reputationsand aquick look at Acta.&bull; The Eldy project, which is being used by Simplicity Computer - which has beenfeatured on the BBCas "a computer for the elderly, and/or people who haven't used a computer before" - looks intriguing. How do you get free software like that? Step forward Liam Proven, who emailed last night to explain that heput together the software behind the Simplicity Computer, selecting Linux Mint and Eldy and working with the creators of Eldy to improve and polish it.So it's a Linux program that runs on Windows? Sort of.Firstly: yes, the computers run Linux Mint and Eldy, but it is *not* the version of Eldy that is available for download fromVegan Solutions in Vicenza. We have been working with Enrico Neri and his team at Vegan Soln's for about six months now, building a special custom version of Eldy for our customers.Eldy has some 180,000 users already in Italy, and it is an Italian product. They have produced versions for international users, but it must be admitted, their English translations do leave something to be desired in places. We are working on that with them, but our first priority was to get our own product on the market.There are a few rough edges around Eldy - the language translation into English isn't quite what you'd call perfect - but it's a very interesting project. And Proven notes that Simplicity has gone even further:we've completely rewritten the entire user interface, replacing all the text with a new bespoke translation, written by professional writers who are native British English speakers. We've also modified the user interface in places, adding, removing and changing parts; for instance, the public chatroom in the Simplicity version of Eldy is now called "Community", which means that users of our prototype systems are in a different channel from the public chatroom of the original version, which is called "Square".Now, here's the interesting bit: perhaps Simplicity will bring Linux in through the basement of user experience.We build custom machines, designed to work perfectly with Linux; we manually tweak the install; we put on them a custom, bespoke, heavily-customised version of Eldy; we add in a gigabyte of professionally filmed, recorded and edited tutorial videos, featuring Ms Singleton; we test them thoroughly and we ship them along with a handbook that adds more detailed instructions to those given in the on-screen tutorials. We then back this with telephone and online support, a warranty and so on.The Simplicity is of course aimed at many of those 10 million who have never used a computer - many of the peopleMartha Lane Fox is aiming atwith the Digital Inclusion Task Force. Wouldn't it be neat if they all ended up on Linux?Certainly Eldy looks very interesting (aside from the Simplicity angle). I have an elderly relative who I think might benefit from its interface.&bull; Apple plans to develop aversion of the iPhone that will work anywhere in the world. That would be useful, surely.&bull; Twitter isrolling out a retweet feature, butnot everyone's impressed, because it doesn't let you add your own comments to the retweet. What's the point in kibitzing if you can't, well, kibitz?&bull; Hewlett-Packard is on the acquisition trail again: EDS is just a distant digested memory (sort of). Now it'sswallowing 3Com for $2.7bn, including 3Com's debt. The aim? "Converged infrastructure." Perhaps it'll get clearer later.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
I have an Advent 8109 laptop bought in 2005, and I would like to have Windows 7 installed. PC World, from whom I purchased the laptop, can do this for £102 plus £49 installation fee.Ken MettamYou might get about £150-£160 for an Advent 8109 if you sold it on eBay.co.uk, so it's hard to justify spending £151 on upgrading it to Windows 7. The usual Advent 8109 had a 1.6GHz Intel Celeron processor, 1GB of memory and a 60GB hard drive for about £390, but I'd recommend 2GB for Windows 7. Today PC World sells the Acer Aspire 5738 with a 2.1GHz T4300 Dual Core processor, 3GB of memory and a 250GB hard drive with Windows 7 installed for £399. Look for product code 738415 on the PC World website. There are similar options from other suppliers includingTesco Direct. I think you'd be better off selling the old PC and buying a new one, assuming the extra £100 is not an insuperable barrier. In both cases, you will have to reinstall all your old software: PC World will save your data, but it won't reinstall all your old programs.
I have a 50Mbps Virgin broadband account with a D-Link DIR 615 wireless router. I can get 50 megs on my laptop when it's plugged in via an Ethernet cable, but via Wi-Fi, I get about 22 megs – less than half the speed. The technician said that unless I have an "n" card I will never be able to get 50 megs. I'm using a 2006 MacBook with OS X 10.4.11.Katie TomsThe technician is correct. In theory, 802.11g Wi-Fi supports bandwidth up to 54Mbps, but in reality, about 22Mbps is what you should expect to get. The draft "n" standard supports over 100Mbps, and in real life should deliver 50Mbps if you are only using 802.11n Wi-Fi, ie not a mix of b/g/n standards. Unfortunately, Apple didn't announce support for the draft standard until January 2007, about six months after Dell, and saysit only supports the higher speed on MacBooks with Core 2 Duo processors. If you have a MacBook rather than a MacBook Pro, there is no easy way to upgrade the Wi-Fi – it has no PC Card or ExpressCard/34 expansion slot, even if the processor could handle the throughput. If you really need 50Mbps wireless, you'll probably have to buy a new computer, though I'd still be interested to know which internet services actually need that speed.
Years ago I had a computer with an Iomega Zip drive, which I used to copy files from my home to my office computer. Having retired, I am catching up on my computer projects and have found three Zip disks, but I no longer have a PC that can read them.Margaret BrewsterThere are still some external Zip drives around that you could plug into your current PC's USB port. You might be able to borrow one from a friend, or find one via a local computer club, or something similar. If that approach fails, you could buy one on eBay.co.uk for £20-£30, then sell it again after transferring the data. Or there are companies that offer data recovery and file transfer services, such asApex Technology. However, the data recovery market deals mainly with commercial companies who may be desperate to recover important data and are less worried about the cost.Web extra: By the way, Zip disks turned out to be less than perfect as an archival medium, rather than as a data transfer system (which is how you used yours), and Iomega was sued in the US over the "click of death" that affected some drives (PDF). If you run into this problem, retrieving your old data could turm out to be more trouble than it's worth.
Since I installed Mozilla Firefox 3.5, I've been having constant Server Not Found problems. Judging by internet forums, it's a very common problem.Lily PoberezhskaMozilla has some support documents at "Server not found", with suggested approaches. There's also "Cannot connect after upgrading Firefox", which deals with firewall problems. However, I've found that there are fewer problems with more recent versions, and the latest 3.5.5 also seems faster. If you don't have a router problem (which can lead to Internet Explorer not working as well) then the best solution is probably to uninstall Firefox, delete all the add-ons, then reinstall the latest version.
I'm running Windows 2000 Pro and the latest version of AVG 9.0 does not support it. As a pensioner, I cannot upgrade Windows every time Microsoft brings out a new package. What do you suggest?Mrs WhiteThere are lots of anti-virus programs for Windows and, for example, Avast! still supports Windows 2000. The Home Edition is free fornon-commercial and home use(ie both, not either/or). However, it's 10 years since Windows 2000 was launched, and you've skipped four significant Microsoft upgrades: XP, XP SP2, Vista and Windows 7. You can't really expect commercial companies to keep supporting old versions of Windows with vanishing numbers of users.
Less than a centimetreDell says it is releasing the world's thinnest laptop: the Adamo XPS is just 9.9mm thick and runs 64-bit Windows 7.Sound asleepIf you can't sleep in headphones, you can buy a pillow that comes with a built-in loudspeaker that connects to your MP3 player.We know where you liveLocatorz has launched a mobile phone-based locating/people-tracking service based on Ordnance Survey maps.Thumbs up for securityVirus Bulletin has tested Microsoft Security Essentials and says "it is highly likely that it will earn VB100 certification on its first attempt".Old photos framed, digitallyThe Digipix Memories gift pack (£49.99) scans 100 old photos to an SD card and then returns them with a 7in digital photo frame.Foyles gets ebooksLondon's most famous bookshop has started selling Sony and BeBook e-readers and electronic books.5.9bn mobilesInfonetics says the pace of "landline-to-mobile substitution" has increased and it predicts there will be 5.9bn mobile phone users in 2013.Supersized DSiNintendo of Japan has now launched a supersized handheld, the DSi LL, with a 4.2in screen.
The legal system is often accused of lagging behind the technological curve – indeed, it is only a couple of years since a high court judge made headlines by saying: "I don't really understand what a website is." He later said that the remarks were taken out of context.Once in a while, however, the courts get ahead of the curve. Eight years ago, for example, America took the pioneering step of making every court document available online to the public. The grand plan was, understandably, hailed by transparency advocates and freedom of information campaigners.The centrepiece of the effort pushed through by the US Congress, from early 2001, was web access toPacer, the Public Access to Court Electronic Records scheme. This had provided electronic access to court records since 1988, but via a network of terminals largely limited to libraries and official buildings.Legal minefieldThe Pacer website is a vast database of PDF files for download over the web from the country's many district, appellate and bankruptcy courts, among others.But while the sentiment behind the system is admirable, even Pacer's biggest fans admit that it is far from perfect.For starters, the highly atomised nature of the US court system mean that documents are often hard to find. Also, users cannot access documents without handing over their identity and credit card number, and the system itself is based around a clunky, arcane-looking and labyrinthine database aimed largely at lawyers and experts. And then, perhaps most importantly, there is cost.Users of Pacer are charged eight cents (around 4.8p) a page. There are price limitations – a ceiling of $2.40 a download, for example – but case documents are often split into batches and can run to hundreds of pages overall. And the complexities of court filings mean that lay users can rarely be sure that the files they are paying for will deliver the information they seek.That's where a team from Princeton University, in New Jersey, decided to step in. TheirRecaptool, as the name suggests, aims to turn Pacer on its head: by making legal documents more easily available, and dramatically reducing the cost."All of the stuff in Pacer is, essentially, part of the law of the land," says Harlan Yu, a Princeton PhD student and one of the trio behind Recap. "Our nation is governed by laws, and we feel like the law should be accessible to all. And being accessible, in this day and age, means that the law should be online where it's most accessible to citizens in a way that is free."The system that Yu developed, along with his colleague Tim Lee and Stephen Schultze, an academic who was working at Harvard's Berkman Center for the Internet and Society at the time, is an ingenious twist on peer-to-peer networking."We were talking about ways we could get access to these documents in bulk," he says. "We figured there were probably ways you can automate the process."The resulting system is an ingenious twist on peer to peer networking. Users download a plug-in for the Firefox browser. When they browse for a legal filing, the system checks whether another user has requested it. If it has never been purchased, the user pays – and the file is automatically sent to join a library held by the Internet Archive. If another Recap user has paid in the past, the archive copy can be downloaded free. The system may look familiar to fans of the original Napster.But there are no questions of legality with Recap. Most court files are in the public domain – meaning that anyone who takes them has the right to publish them anywhere."Once somebody extracts a document from Pacer and actually pays for it, you can post it on a blog, share it with your friends – you can do whatever you want with it," says Yu.Since the system launched in August, legal circles have been buzzing with support for the idea."We've gotten a good response from lawyers who use the system often and certainly from academics who want to do longitudinal studies about the courts," says Yu. "We've gotten very positive feedback … from investigative journalists and non-profits who do a lot of Pacer work and pay a lot of money to Pacer. This allows them to do more of that without worrying too much about the cost."Reaction was so encouraging that Schultze has now joined the Princeton team and they are planning to expand the scheme, though they admit there are important privacy implications to work through before all documents should be automatically exposed to the public.Paywall painsBut what about Pacer itself? Does diminishing the paywall destroy its funding? Apparently not.In 2006, the system increased the original seven cent charge — and has since built up a cash surplus of more than $150m (£89.7m). Yu says that much of the organisation's budget is spent on courtroom technology not directly related to public access, while politicians including the former vice presidential candidate Joe Lieberman have publicly questioned how the scheme has built up such a surplus, and asked why it still charges.For its part, Pacer says it is not too troubled by the project, though it has warned courts not to encourage use of Recap, and suggested that it was a security risk because it could "possibly be modified for benign or malicious purposes".Recap is not the first to liberate these documents from behind the paywall. There are websites such aspublic.resource.org,FreeCourtDockets.comandJustia.comthat republish documents from Pacer. Others, such asLexis Nexis, charge for a service that includes re-publication of Pacer documents. It has automated what was usually a manual process of sharing.For advocates, the bigger question is whether Pacer objects: opening access to legal documents is an important part of expanding free data and free information. After all, it was Thomas Jefferson – who made his living practicing the law, among other things – who said that "information is the currency of democracy".
Unlike other high-powered government meetings – which are often accompanied by protests and brouhaha – Acta, the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement, has been progressing for two years without much fanfare.Supporters say the treaty will help create a broad consensus on how to deal with counterfeit goods: the kind of legislation usually aimed at criminals who mass-manufacture and sell pirate DVDs, or flood the market with dangerous fake products such as batteries and electrical equipment. In truth, the treaty also contains suggestions for the control of internet content that some believe could radically alter the nature of copyright law worldwide.According toinformation that leaked from a secret meeting in South Korea last week, officials are proposing new ways to deal with intellectual property infringement online, including a global three-strikes law that could effectively override any British laws, regardless of whether or not the controversial Mandelson plan goes through parliament.In addition, text drafted by the US and Japan suggests that officials are also looking to make a number of other fundamental changes and radically revamp some of the basic tenets of internet law. For starters, they propose partially dropping the idea of "safe harbour" – the concept that a service provider is not responsible for what its customers do with their service.The idea, also known as the "mere conduit" defence in English law, has been the legal backbone for internet providers, telephone companies and thousands of websites over the years, but a draft of Acta's internet section suggests that the burden should fall more heavily on service providers to police and patrol their systems.On top of all this, say campaigners, Acta is being thrashed out in total secrecy – leaving everyone guessing at what laws might be on the way. Professor Michael Geist, a prominent legal expert at the University of Ottowa, says this cloak-and-dagger approach is part of a wider set of problems with the treaty."A copyright agreement is being treated akin to nuclear secrets, with virtually no transparency but for a few leaks that have emerged," he told CBC. "As a policy-making matter, it's enormously problematic – but then the provisions associated with the treaty are even more problematic."Acta could even establish a new global body such as the World Bank or World Trade Organisation, which could effectively override national legal structures – possibly making Lord Mandelson'sproposals to cut off the internet connections of illegal file sharersmoot."The US government appears to be pushing for three strikes – despite the fact that it has been categorically rejected by the European parliament," said Gwen Hinze of theElectronic Frontier Foundation, adding that the leaks "confirmed everything that we feared".
What makes a newspaper relevant? To a team of developers trying to imagine how to make use of the new data.gov.uk repository – intended to hold all of the government data being made publicly available – the best way was to build one around people's postcodes.That led to an experiment called the "Postcode Paper", unveiled to a team of civil servants at a developer hack day last month by Newspaper Club – a site which aims to create newspapers of all sorts.The Postcode Paper is "a prototype of a service for people moving into a new area. In our exercise we imagined you might receive it after paying your council tax for the first time," wrote Tom Taylor of Newspaper Club. "It gathers information about your area, such as local services, environmental information and crime statistics."The blogpostshows pictures of the paper, with the example of London E5 0JA – in Homerton – showing how much green space there is, where allotments are, and what sort of recycling there is. Newspaper Club also usedTransport for Londonfor travel times, andItoto create a map of transport options and times.Among those present were representatives from the Department for Communities and Local Government, which will be keen to see projects that involve citizens more closely in their area.The example has stimulated a number of people to try to make better use of public data. Jonathan Powell, who has been working on similar projects in Leeds, notes in the comments that "We're attempting to obtain social history information and geotagged media/discussion as well as raw statistics."The data.gov.uk website is not yet open to the public, though developers can sign up if invited. There is also a Google Group where signed-up developers are discussing topics including an API for NHS data, educational datasets, and the extent to which spreadsheets are a sufficient stand-in for semantic web technologies when trying to analyse crime data. Clearly, building a relevant newspaper on local data for anywhere in the country may take a little while – but good progress is being made behind the scenes.Join the debate at theFree Our Data blog
Windows 7 upgradeI have an Advent 8109 laptop bought in 2005, and I would like to have Windows 7 installed. PC World, from whom I purchased the laptop, can do this for £102 plus £49 installation fee.Ken MettamJack Schofield replies:You might get about £150-£160 for an Advent 8109 if you sold it on eBay.co.uk, so it's hard to justify spending £151 on upgrading it to Windows 7. The usual Advent 8109 had a 1.6GHz Intel Celeron processor, 1MB of memory and a 60GB hard drive for about £390, but I'd recommend 2GB for Windows 7. Today PC World sells the Acer Aspire 5738 with a 2.1GHz T4300 Dual Core processor, 3GB of memory and a 250GB hard drive with Windows 7 installed for £399. Look for product code 738415 on the PC World website. There are similar options from other suppliersincluding Tesco Direct. I think you'd be better off selling the old PC and buying a new one, assuming the extra £100 is not an insuperable barrier. In both cases, you will have to reinstall all your old software: PC World will save your data, but it won't reinstall all your old programs.Windows 2000 upgradeI'm running Windows 2000 Pro and the latest version of AVG 9.0 does not support it. As a pensioner, I cannot upgrade Windows every time Microsoft brings out a new package. What do you suggest?Mrs WhiteJS:There are lots of anti-virus programs for Windows and, for example, Avast! still supports Windows 2000. The Home Edition isfree for non-commercial and home use. However, it's 10 years since Windows 2000 was launched, and you've skipped four significant Microsoft upgrades: XP, XP SP2, Vista and Windows 7. You can't really expect commercial companies to keep supporting old versions of Windows with vanishing numbers of users.Broadband to the nthI have a 50Mbps Virgin broadband account with a D-Link DIR 615 wireless router. I can get 50 megs on my laptop when it's plugged in via an Ethernet cable, but via Wi-Fi, I get about 22 megs – less than half the speed. The technician said that unless I have an "n" card I will never be able to get 50 megs. I'm using a 2006 MacBook with OS X 10.4.11.Katie TomsJS:The technician is correct. In theory, 802.11g Wi-Fi supports bandwidth up to 54Mbps, but in reality, about 22Mbps is what you should expect to get. The draft "n" standard supports over 100Mbps, and in real life should deliver 50Mbps if you are only using 802.11n Wi-Fi, ie not a mix of b/g/n standards. Unfortunately, Apple didn't announce support for the draft standard until January 2007, about six months after Dell, and says itonly supports the higher speed on MacBooks with Core 2 Duo processors. If you have a MacBook rather than a MacBook Pro, there is no easy way to upgrade the Wi-Fi – it has no PC Card or ExpressCard/34 expansion slot, even if the processor could handle the throughput. If you really need 50Mbps wireless, you'll probably have to buy a new computer, though I'd still be interested to know which internet services actually need that speed.Zip file rescueYears ago I had a computer with an Iomega Zip drive, which I used to copy files from my home to my office computer. Having retired, I am catching up on my computer projects and have found three Zip disks, but I no longer have a PC that can read them.Margaret BrewsterJS:There are still some external Zip drives around that you could plug into your current PC's USB port. You might be able to borrow one from a friend, or find one via a local computer club, or something similar. If that approach fails, you could buy one on eBay.co.uk for £20-£30, then sell it again after transferring the data. Or there are companies that offer data recovery and file transfer services, such asApex Technology. However, the data recovery market deals mainly with commercial companies who may be desperate to recover important data and are less worried about the cost.Firefox problemsSince I installed Mozilla Firefox 3.5, I've been having constant Server Not Found problems. Judging by internet forums, it's a very common problem.Lily PoberezhskaJS:Mozilla has some support documents at "Server not found", with suggested approaches. There's also "Cannot connect after upgrading Firefox", which deals with firewall problems. However, I've found that there are fewer problems with more recent versions, and the latest 3.5.5 also seems faster. If you don't have a router problem (which can lead to Internet Explorer not working as well) then the best solution is probably to uninstall Firefox, delete all the add-ons, then reinstall the latest version.Backchat• Steve Ferguson wanted to replace Microsoft Access for storing the membership records of a small society. Phil Woodall from Lasa (London Advice Services Alliance), which supports the "community and voluntary sector", says it has made one of its databases, AIMS,  available free of charge (lasa.org.uk/aims).• Robert Cock wanted a program to list all the software on his PC and log the product keys before he upgraded to Windows 7. Nick Pinnock points out that Belarc Advisor, which I mentioned, "does tell you your Microsoft product keys, eg for Windows and Office. It will also record the keys used by some other manufacturers." The problem is that we don't know which keys it misses.• On the same topic, Steve Mayer says: "how aboutProduct Key Finder? The disadvantages are that it only saves keys that are stored in the Windows registry, and it "doesn't save all the keys properly (I have informed the author about the latter bug)".
I'd love to make a TV commercial for Medion's S47000 high-definition sports camcorder. It's somewhat ruggedised and splashproof, so I could show trendy young people skiing down Swiss mountainsides, BMX bikers capturing each other in action, and kids splashing in the surf.But my sales pitch would, alas, remind me that I'm perhaps not really the most appropriate reviewer for the product. The most hazardous thing I've done recently is scamper across Buckingham Palace Road.Still, the simplicity and durability of the S47000 could provide it with a wider appeal. Once you have got over the shock of finding five cables in the box – the only one I used was for the mains charger – it's very easy to use.You hit the power button, set the date and time on the opening screen, frame your subject on the 2in colour LCD screen, push the record button, and you're making an HD movie (with a maximum resolution of 720p). As you'd expect, it's just as straightforward as filming with a mobile phone. The S47000 sports camcorder is also versatile enough for you to use it as a (somewhat limited) one megapixel still camera, with a 2x digital zoom, as well as an MP3 player – other functions that you may well have on your mobile phone.Sorry, I missed a step … To get the price down to £99.99, Medion ships the camcorder without the SD (or SDHC) memory card you need to store much more than photos and sample recordings. But if you're anything like me, you already own several gadgets that use SD cards, and will have a small stack of them ready for use. This also means you can move files from SD to PC without using any of the cables, though you will need either the HDMI or USB/AV cables if you want to connect to a high-definition TV set.The camcorder is robust, thanks partly to the raised black ring around the case. However, it's not waterproof and it wouldn't be a good idea to drop it on a hard floor. Technicallyit's rated IP43 for protectionagainst foreign objects and water. It's not childproof, but it's more rough-and-tumble friendly than some camcorders . It could be a great gift for a young and active teenager.On the downside, this sports camcorder does not provide any other option of recording file format except for3ivx mov, which I would rather avoid. It's a format that some Windows PC users seem to have problems playing, let alone editing. If you are thinking of buying the Medion, I'd recommend playing around with one of its 3ivx mov files first. You might like it, but it could also prove to be a deal-breaker.Pros: build quality; easy to use for point-and-shoot video; splashproofCons: Limited (90MB) internal memory; 3ivx .mov formathttp://bit.ly/medionS47000
In the past, our relationship with our computers was technical. We cared what CPU they had and what software they ran. We understood our networks and how they worked. We were experts, or we depended on someone else for expertise. And security was part of that expertise.This is changing. We access our email via the web, from any computer or from our phones. We use Facebook, Google Docs, even our corporate networks, regardless of hardware or network. We, especially the younger of us, no longer care about the technical details. Computing is infrastructure; it's a commodity. It's less about products and more about services; we simply expect it to work, like telephone service or electricity or a transportation network.Infrastructures can be spread on a broad continuum, ranging from generic to highly specialised. Power and water are generic; who supplies them doesn't really matter. Mobile phone services, credit cards, ISPs, and airlines are mostly generic. &nbsp;More specialised infrastructure services are restaurant meals, haircuts, and social networking sites. Highly specialised services include tax preparation for complex businesses; management consulting, legal services, and medical services.Sales for these services are driven by two things: price and trust. The more generic the service is, the more price dominates. The more specialised it is, the more trust dominates. IT is something of a special case because so much of it is free. So, for both specialised IT services where price is less important and for generic IT services – think Facebook – where there is no price, trust will grown in importance. IT is becoming a reputation-based economy, and this has interesting ramifications for security.Some years ago, the major credit card companies became concerned about the plethora of credit-card-number thefts from sellers' databases. They worried that these may undermine the public's trust in credit cards as a secure payment system for the internet. They knew the sellers would only protect these databases up to the level of the threat to the seller, and not to the greater level of threat to the industry as a whole. So they banded together and produced a security standard called PCI. It's wholly industry-enforced – by an industry that realised its reputation was more valuable than the sellers' databases.A reputation-based economy means that infrastructure providers care more about security than their customers do. I realised this 10 years ago with my own company. We provided network-monitoring services to large corporations, and our internal network security was much more extensive than our customers'. Our customers secured their networks – that's why they hired us, after all – but only up to the value of their networks. If we mishandled any of our customers' data, we would have lost the trust of all of our customers.I heard the same story at an ENISA conference in London last June, when an IT consultant explained that he had begun encrypting his laptop years before his customers did. While his customers might decide that the risk of losing their data wasn't worth the hassle of dealing with encryption, he knew that if he lost data from one customer, he risked losing all of his customers.As IT becomes more like infrastructure, more like a commodity, expect service providers to improve security to levels greater than their customers would have done themselves.In IT, customers learn about company reputation from many sources: magazine articles, analyst reviews, recommendations from colleagues, awards, certifications, and so on. Of course, this only works if customers have accurate information. In a reputation economy, companies have a motivation to hide their security problems.You've all experienced a reputation economy: restaurants. Some restaurants have a good reputation, and are filled with regulars. When restaurants get a bad reputation, people stop coming and they close. Tourist restaurants – whose main attraction is their location, and whose customers frequently don't know anything about their reputation – can thrive even if they aren't any good. And sometimes a restaurant can keep its reputation – an award in a magazine, a special occasion restaurant that "everyone knows" is the place to go – long after its food and service have declined.The reputation economy is far from perfect.•Bruce Schneieris BT's chief security technology officer
These days you need a good search engine just to search for other search engines. They are springing up over all the place, apparently undeterred by the fact that Google has become almost synonymous with search. There are three main reasons. First, the market is so lucrative, especially for adverts linked to the search terms we use, that others want to get a share of Google's action. That's one reason Microsoftgreatly improved its own search engineand rebranded it Bing in the hope that it might trip off the tongue lightly enough to become a verb as well as Google. Second, as the Wikipedia co-founder Jimmy Wales has noted, the cost of setting up a search engine has fallen so much it hasbecome a commodity item.If you were to do a blind tasting of Google with Yahoo, Bing or others, you would be pushed to tell them apart. Google's power is no longer as a good search engine but as a brand and an increasingly pervasive one. Google hasn't been my default search for ages but I am irresistibly drawn to it because it is embedded on virtually every page I go to and, as a big user of other Google services (documents, videos, Reader, maps), I don't navigate to Google search, it navigates to me. The third is that search is still in its infancy. We have all got complacent about the daily miracle in which most engines scour a vast, global database in a fraction of a second to produce results.But it is irritating that many searches, especially those with commercial implications, are increasingly dominated by "search engine optimisers" paid to get their company's results at the top of the stack. In any case, they still only search part of history's accumulated memory. Sometimes we don't just want to see what's at the top of the haystack&nbsp; but the needle that is buried somewhere inside that no one has linked to.All this may help to explain the continuing explosion of new search engines. In recent weeks I have been impressed byleapfish.comandduckduckgo.com(neither of which seems to have obvious ambitions to become a verb). Both owe a lot to the pioneering work of Summize, which was shrewdly taken over by Twitter last year. Fewer than half a dozen engineers at Summize outflanked Google not by searching history quickly but by searching the here-and-now now almost in real time.As an example while researching this, I usedMonitter.com(note the two 't's) which has three search boxes on its screen and will search anything posted on Twitter after a gap of about 20 seconds. By putting "search" into one box and "new search engine" into another you can plug in to the thoughts of experts and others who have discovered or tested new sites. It is a great tool. Ten years ago they would keep this information to themselves. Now they can't pour it out fast enough.Both Leapfish and Duckduckgo combine real time search with sharing over social networks. The latter has a column of icons on the right enabling you to search YouTube, Flickr or Google separately as well as a feature "I'm feeling Ducky", a take-off of Google's "I'm Feeling Lucky". (Who said search engines don't have a sense of humour?) Both of them often throw up quirky results that make them an attractive addition, if not yet alternative, to the main engines.Cuil.comcomes up with a different palette of results (not always up to date) and open-source search engines such as Nutch and Apache Soir, which is reported to be under consideration by the White House, are worth keeping an eye on. If you want to test other websites tryhttp://bit.ly/vicsearch3for the top 25 niche engines orhttp://bit.ly/vicsearch4for the top 100. Even though Google's brand dominance doesn't yet look under threat, competition not only provides choice for ourselves but will keep Google and the others on their toes.twitter.com/vickeegan
When is a game not a game? FarmVille, a "social game" available on Facebook, is dividing opinion across the web as users and pundits flock to criticise its somewhat cynical nature and praise its unprecedented success. Since its release in June, nearly 60 million people have downloaded the application – a similar figure to the number of Wiis sold to date across the world.The object of the game is simple – to plant crops, and harvest them. Many users on the game's Facebook page claim to find the process both satisfying and addictive. The secret of its success is that to accessorise your farm, or expand it in size, you must persuade other friends to join the community – and pay actual money if you want to receive the most exciting farm upgrades.Michael Arrington, founder of the Techcrunch blog, hasled the charge of the critics, condemning the game's developer, Zynga, for supposedly underhanded attempts to extract real money from users. For about £30, you can purchase 70,000 "farm coins" or 240 notes of "farm cash". While the coins are relatively easy to accumulate, you receive farm cash only when you level up – which can take a couple of days' clicking. There's a strong temptation for hardcore users to skip the hard work and hand over credit card details.If you do choose to take this shortcut, a 2D sprite of a manor or pagoda building can grace your farm for the equivalent of about £5. The worry is, of course, that children or vulnerable users may get hooked, and splurge on beautifying their farm while, in material terms, they will be paying for nothing.This sort of virtual transaction has been around for years in the online gaming community. FarmVille is simply the first game to present so many people beyond the world of MMORPGs (massive multiplayer online role-playing games) and Second Life with such an opportunity. Zynga's claim that a third of its revenue comes from such transactions suggests that regular folk are far more likely to be willing to pay for these sort of virtual commodities than anyone previously realised.While the appeal of what amounts to little more than an online chore may be lost on many of us, it indicates a huge area of untapped potential for online leisure time and spending.FarmVille isn't something you can invest an evening in, but as devotees of the likes of Solitaire and Minesweeper will tell you, it's often the games you can dip into for five minutes at a time (often while at work) that prove the most popular. In fact, FarmVille isn't really a game at all. It's an online hobby, and has far more in common with knitting or gardening than a first-person shooter.But if someone took the social side of FarmVille, and coupled it with something as challenging and rewarding as Sim City or Civilisation (an incarnation of which is due to appear on Facebook next year) we could well find a new era of games played and enjoyed by almost everybody. Who knows, one day we may well look back on FarmVille as a pioneer.
Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2, the video game only officially released on Tuesday, has sold 1.23m units in its first day – more than double the previous record set by Grand Theft Auto IV in April 2008, according to figures released by the games software association Elspa.The game is estimated to have grossed around £47m in the UK alone – not quite double the amount that GTA IV, which sold 631,000 units and grossed £27.2m, managed.Activision, the company behind the game, expects that up to 3m copies could be sold in the first week in the UK alone, earning up to £150m – and sales in the US will be proportionately larger.Although it does not yet put the game into the ranks of highest-grossing films – where the top weekend opening, the traditional measure by which the initial success of a film is measured, is $158m for The Dark Knight in July 2008– it is more evidence that video games have become as integral a part of modern culture as films, music and television.Michael Rawlinson, director general for Elspa, the Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association in the UK, called the sales figures "astonishing" and said: "Video games are now mainstream in the UK. Our form of interactive entertainment has completely come of age."Before the game's release there had been controversy over the depiction in part of its gameplay of a scene where the player, in the guise of an undercover agent amidst a group of terrorists, has to kill civilians in an airport.Responding to that, Rawlinson said: "Just like some movies and books, this is specifically intended for an adult audience and accordingly has emotional, adult content. So, as an 18-rated video game, it is important that this game is not played by children, and parents should be appropriately vigilant. We ask everyone to make sure they check the packaging of games to ensure they are suitable for their players, especially as we enter the festive season when video games are one of the most popular gifts of the holiday."The game had sparked its own mini-controversy within Parliament, with the Labour MPs Keith Vaz and Tom Watson debating its merits. Vaz seemed worried about the possibility of children getting hold of the game, but Watson, a former Cabinet Office minister, responded: "UK gamers need their own pressure group. I want to help [them] to start one up."It remains to be seen whether the success of the game will persuade ministers to accede to requests from the gaming industry for a series of tax breaks to encourage games writing and publishing companies to remain in the UK. Other countries such as Canada have brought in such schemes with some notable successes, but the UK has seen a loss of talent, games companies complain, due to unfavourable tax conditions.Related:read our reviews of Modern Warfare 2 by:Charlie Brooker;Mike Anderiesz
In a world where increasing amounts of our data are held somewhere in vast server farms, the opening of a new data centre in Wiltshire may seem like no big thing. Enormous sheds filled with racks of computers pop up every day and everywhere, the silent power strengthening the ever-more-connected and ever-more-digital world.But in Ark Continuity's new SQ17 server farm buried deep in the former stone mines of Corsham, is something worth noting. The facility, unveiled today, is probably the most sustainable and environmentally friendly of its kind in the world: a combination of location and design means that it uses more than a third less energy than a typical data centre."Between 25-40% of the cost of running a data centre would be in the electricity," says Jeffrey Thomas, chief executive of Ark Continuity. "So if we can cut that in half, we're making a significant economic saving for our occupiers, even before their CO2 reduction obligations."IT accounts for around 2% of the UK's carbon emissions and the sector is aware of increasing impact it will have on energy and environment as it grows. "Being more efficient in the data centre is synonymous not only with saving carbon but also saving money," says Kate Craig-Wood, co-founder of the carbon-neutral ISP Memset. "So it's pretty common sense really."Digital Europe, the EU-wide trade body for the tech sector, has committed to getting its members to reduce their emissions by 20% by 2020, relative to 2008 levels. Given that the number of servers is expected to increase globally from 13m in 2008 to 122m by 2020, the potential energy footprint is a serious issue."We are passionate about the future of this planet," says Thomas. "It is the only and right way to do things."He acquired what is now known as Spring Park ten years ago. A hundred miles from London and with a million-square-feet hole underground, it was not immediately obvious to Thomas that the site should be used as a data centre. The facility had been an underground munitions dump and factory site during the Second World War. "In the Cold War, latterly under Macmillan and Thatcher, it became the seat of government in a time of crisis. Part of it became a nuclear bunker."This meant the underground buildings were some of the most secure facilities in the UK, reinforced and strengthened so that they could withstand three 10-megaton nuclear strikes at the same time. And it also had interesting environmental characteristics – being a damp mine, it was ideal at staying cool. "The sun never shines down there so there's no solar gain," says Thomas. "With the size of it and the evaporative qualities of the mine, we can dissipate 20MW of energy with adiabatic cooling with 10 litres of water a second, which is just cycled around in a fog underground.""At our latitude and altitude, we'll get around 60-65% of the year we should achieve free air cooling – that means the temperature of the outside of the building is cool enough to use to cool the inside of the building."The server space at Spring Park costs around 20% more to build than typical setups, thanks to the cleaner technologies involved. Rather than using cooling systems with greenhouse gas refrigerants, SQ17 uses chilled water. "And that costs more but is lower carbon – some of the technologies cost more, the design is more sophisticated." But this leads to much lower operational costs, mainly in electricity savings.The efficiency of a data centre can be assessed using the power usage effectiveness (PUE), a measure of the amount of power needed for cooling and other management (such as lights and security) for every kilowatt consumed by the IT infrastructure. The UK average is around 2.2: for every kilowatt spent on IT, 1.2 KW used to cool and manage the space. "Best practice PUE around 1.5 and there are some stellar examples where you might get to 1.2 or 1.3 but they're typically not the most robust data centres," says Thomas.At Spring Park, for those days where the surface temperature is above 18C, Thomas says the ground source cooling mechanism does all the required work and the PUE of the data centre gets down to between 1.09 and 1.12.Other factors that raise the energy costs of data centres include redundancy and security. Doubling up hardware in case anything failed was the obvious thing to do when servers were not as efficient or reliable, says Craig-Wood. But nowadays it just wastes resources and it is possible to be smarter about how ISPs and data centre operators manage failures. The EU's new code of conduct for data centres even recommends that consumers shy away from doubling up and only use what they need. Craig-Wood says that, in most cases, doubling the number of servers is simply not necessary.Another reason Spring Park uses less energy is location. "Before 9/11," according to Thomas, "every data centre had to be based in London for the UK and everyone wanted to hug their servers."With improvements in technology infrastructure and broadband connections, it began to matter less where data was physically located, so the biggest driver became sustainability. "London is 1.5-2C warmer than Wiltshire – so we enjoy an 18% addition free air cooling by just not being in London."Craig-Wood, who also sits on the energy and environment working group of Intellect, the UK's high-tech trade body, said that in addition to meeting its own commitments, IT will play important roles in helping other sectors reduce their carbon impact in the coming years. Through smart logistics, smart buildings and tele-working, she says that intelligent applications of IT could help Europe cut around 15% of its CO2 emisssions by 2020. "High-tech capacity and IT has the capacity to be one of the new engines of growth to bring us out of the recession," she says. "So it's important we do it but in a sustainable way."
The email from Google in June was the first sign: it warned that the Free Our Data site seemed to be host to a set of hidden spam links – or as Google put it, "techniques that are outside our quality guidelines". It took more than two months to discover the true extent of the hacking, which had planted links all over the website to an "online pharmacy" selling dubious products.More surprising, on digging into the problems, was the realisation that Free Our Data was only one of a network of sites that had been hit in a similar way by exploiting a subtle, hidden flaw. Others with similar spam links included the Montserrat Volcano observatory site, a European research site, a Minneapolis-based artist, an Australian website for singers, a recruiting company in California, the personal webspace of a maths professor at the University of Texas in San Antonio, and a medical devices website run by a large healthcare company.A search for "/online/canadian" will certainly turn up hundreds more sites that have been compromised in the same way, such as the Imperial Ice Stars website.Nor was this some Windows server exploit; the hacker seemed to have found holes in the open source content management systems (CMS) of each of the blogs, exploiting them to alter the sites at will.I found two separate "control panels" inserted into Free Our Data, their names disguised to make them seem like innocuous pieces of site code; instead, they gave the hacker complete control to add any file to the site, and insert any content into its related databases. The code carries text claiming to be by a Chinese hacker called "4ngel", though it's most likely that the hacker responsible simply bought or copied it. The password – "yahoo" – also gives a clue to its owner's likely email address.That so many apparently diverse sites could each be attacked by the same method gives one pause for thought. While PCs running Windows are increasingly the target of better-designed security exploits – as we explained last week (Enemy of the state, 5 November) – what about the millions of sites on the web that are either hosted by individuals or run by companies for whom staying ahead of server and CMS security issues is not top priority? What can we say about the state of web security?New tricksThe web seems a different place than in August 2001, when the "Code Red" (or "Nimda") virus ravaged the web – automatically infecting Windows servers, seeking out more to infect and putting an infected file onto webpages so that any machine reading it with Internet Explorer 5 would also be infected. But that doesn't mean security has become tighter.The addition of spam links to a webpage is a comparatively low-key problem. The bigger risk now is from "drive-by" downloads – malware (malicious software) that will try to infect Windows machines that visit a particular website by exploiting vulnerabilities in the browser.Experts agree that the change is due to one critical factor: money. Hackers generally don't now aim to make a mess; they do it to get cash."The difference is that in about 2003 people realised they could use these weaknesses to make money," explains Richard Clayton, a security researcher at Cambridge University. "There are three ways they do it: drive-by downloads, which enlarge a botnet [which can be hired to send spam, assist in the theft of personal details, or attack websites to extort their owners]; hosting a phishing site, so they can collect login details; and putting spam links on the site to raise the spam's search engine ranking." The hacking of Free Our Data and the other sites had the latter purpose.Part of what's changed is the point at which a site's vulnerabilities are exploited. Lloyd Brough, a managing consultant at NCC Group Secure Test, has been in web security for about 10 years. "Nowadays, it's application-based," he explains.Exploits such as those used for Nimda targeted the web server software itself. Generally, that has now been hardened.So instead the target is the databases or associated software through which sites' content and user requests and contributions are managed. These are frequently attacked though a method called "SQL injection". If the code that handles a submitted form, for example, doesn't create exceptions for particular strings, it can be used to subvert the site. "We first noticed that about six years ago," says Brough, "and people are still writing code that isn't properly excepted."Search and destroyNowadays, attacks at that application layer – on databases, the web scripting languages such as PHP and ASP, or even on cookies (items of data stored on users' machines) issued by the website – are commonplace. But what might be surprising is the methods used to identify sites to break into.Clayton and his team have done extensive research into phishing sites hosted on cracked web servers. "We found the same sites would get hacked. Our insight was that people were using Google to find websites to break into, by doing specific searches for particular versions of software that they knew had particular vulnerabilities – Wordpress 1.3.1 or Drupal or whatever. So they'd do a Google search, find those sites and then hack all 50 sites using the same method."Clayton's team could demonstrate that this was how it was done by studying the sites' logs. And that wasn't the end of it: sometimes the same site would be hit by more than one team of hackers, who would each put their own exploit onto it. And the worst of it was that the Google search method meant that, if the site wasn't cleaned, updated and hardened extensively after the break-in was discovered, says Clayton, the chance of being compromised again in the next six months was 50%. "It's like cleaning up after a burglary but not fixing the open window downstairs," he says.Bigger gameThe targets are getting bigger, too. In the past couple of months, both the New York Times and the gadget site Gizmodo have seen their online advertising compromised to try to create "drive-by" infections; and the growing use by criminals of "iframes" – invisible or tiny webpages-within-webpages which may take their content from anywhere on the net – has increased the risk to the casual browser.But is there an endpoint? Might it level off? The consensus is no."It's a big problem and getting worse," says Dave Jevans, chief executive of IronKey and chair of theAnti-Phishing Working Group. "When I have tracked website attacks, I've found it convenient to look at the Zone-H statistics.Zone-H.orgreports on website breach defacements, as reported by bragging hackers. The exact same attack methodologies are used to make a website host malware or a phishing site."Today they reported 1,110 defacements so far. For the month of October 2009 they reported 47,560. So that's about half a million defaced websites per year. Now keep in mind that this is reporting by hackers themselves. Imagine the number of sites that are attacked and breached that are not reported to Zone-H."It's a scary thought: can we trust the web?Bruce Schneier, a security consultant and columnist for the Guardian, thinks the important thing for the web user is to stay aware. "You need to have a good bullshit detector when you're out there," he says. "I lock down my browser. I don't have stuff that I haven't asked to be running – audio, video, whatever."But as to when it will end, Schneier is not hopeful. "It's an arms race," he says simply.Next week: Bobbie Johnson reports  on the state of spam
Adobe is to cut 9% of its workforce, or roughly 680 staff, as part of a company restructuring that follows a year in which its principal customers – in large corporations, and especially publishing – have been struggling to generate cash.Adobe noted the bad news in itsofficial 8-K filingwith the US Securities and Exchange Commission. The terse note, filed on Tuesday, is of a "workforce reduction to appropriately align our costs in connection with our 2010 operating plan (the "Restructuring Plan")."(We'd like to see a copy of this restructuring plan, but it doesn't seem to have made it to theinvestor relations pageyet.)Adobe reckons that the restructuring will cost it between $65m and $71m. The company last cut staff in December 2008, when it axed 600 jobs, representing about 8% of its workforce.Itsfinancial resultsfor the quarter ending on 28 August show that its revenues were down 22% year on year, to $697.51m, while its net income after tax fell by 30% to $136m (its pre-tax income fell by 24%, to $174m). At the time it had 7,654 staff.The falling revenues and income are part of a pattern in the company's fortunes as its usual major customers, particularly in graphics and publishing houses, have held off upgrades on the Creative Suite products which generate about 60% of its revenues. In July itshut its US operations for a weekas part of a cost-cutting exercise: it now implements a week's paid break for staff every quarter.Adobe has diversified in recent years, acquiring Macromedia for its Flash technology in 2005, and last monthcompleting the acquisition of Omniture, a web metrics company, in a share-based deal worth $1.8bn. The company is also making a number of layoffs at Omniture as part of the acquisition.
Microsoft says it is cutting off gamers who have modified their Xbox 360 consoles by adding extra chips or hard drives from its Xbox Live online services. The company says that "a small percentage" are affected – possibly as many as 600,000 of the 20 million Xbox Live players, but perhaps up to 1 million around the world.The banning is part of a sweep that Microsoft carries out each November to remove modified Xboxes from its online gaming service. "Modding" or "chipping" is popular among people who want to play pirated games, but also games bought in other regions, or their own homemade ones which build on the original. It usually requires physically soldering new components into the device.In some cases, modding allows players to cheat within online games - as happened with Microsoft's hugely popular Halo 2, where modded consoles had a better chance of winning. Beginning in 2002, Microsoft released an online update to its service to remove anyone with a modded Xbox console. Since then there seems to have been an annual check of machines to see whether they have been modded. Any machine that has been detected as being modded is added to a list, and cannot rejoin the network in the future.However, being banned does not stop the console itself from working; it only stops the player using the Xbox Live online services.There are scores of websites devoted to modding games consoles. In some cases the modifications allow players to create new "maps" for existing games or to install larger hard drives, for saving games, rather than buying them from Microsoft.Microsoft has not said how it identifies modded machines. Some gamers claim to be able to "turn off" their modchips and evade detection – although having a non-Xbox hard drive is apparently detected and leads to a ban.Microsoft said in a statement: "All consumers should know that piracy is illegal and that modifying their Xbox 360 console to play pirated discs violates the Xbox Live terms of use, will void their warranty and result in a ban from Xbox Live."Almost all forms of modding of consoles are illegal in the US and Europe – although that has not prevented them becoming big business, with online companies promising "simple" and "solderless" installations. Earlier this week the Court of Appeal dismissed an appeal against the conviction of Christopher Gilham, who had been convicted in September 2008 of selling "modchips" – used to modify consoles. The court found that playing a counterfeit game on a modded console infringes the rights associated with the game. The Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers' Association, ELSPA, which represents the video games industry, says that criminal games copying and other illegal activities cost the industry more than £750m annually.
As anyone who has been to the cinema in the last few months will tell you 3D is everywhere. In fact it's getting difficult to see an animated film that isn't in 3D.  Recent examples included Up and Ice Age 3. Whether 3D adds anything to those films is debatable – Up especially, has no need for it – but you can expect the trend to continue. And yes, you've guessed it; 3D is being touted as the next big thing in gaming too.  I've recently tried out a couple of big 3D titles. Eidos'Batman Arkham Asylumon the PC andUbisoft's Avataron the Xbox 360. Is this the future of gaming then?Well, maybe not the future but certainly an interesting diversion. Out of the two games I tried Batman was the most impressive. Eidos' fantastic action game was taken up a notch by playing in 3D and it definitely felt, er, flat, when playing the 360 version afterwards. I played Batman in 3D using a 120Hz screen and a powerful Novatech PC – although any modern-ish PC will do as long as it has an Nvidia compatible graphics card.3D gaming on the PC is being pushed by Nvidia as the next big thing and there were times during my go on Batman when you could almost buy into this – even the 3D menu screens were impressive.  But what do you need to play 3D games on your PC? Well, a sizable bit of cash for a start. The glasses (rather nifty Roy Orbison-esque affairs), transmitter and high end 120HZ monitor cost around £350 all in. Pricey yes, but the upside is that this will work on around 400 PC games - pretty much every PC game released in the last 3 years. And titles like Batman and Resident Evil 5 have had special 3D features optimised too (such as the aforementioned menu).Avatar on the 360 was slightly less impressive though the foliage was beautifully in your face. Playing the standard version of the game straight after was a noticeably less intense experience. Avatar also had the benefit of being on the bigger screen (yes, you'll need to splash out again, this time on a 3D compatible TV).Both Avatar and Batman had the wow factor when you initially put the glasses on and I spent the first part of each game just gawping at the scenery. Once the novelty wore off it is the quality of the game that matters and in Batman's case at least that wasn't an issue. The Avatar demo was too short to really tell if it matched up to Batman's high standards. What was clear was that genre will be important too. Action titles and games that involve environment exploration – RPGs, platformers etc – will likely benefit from 3D. Sports games? Probably not.There are some downsides though.  3D gaming does require you splash out on a new screen – PC or console - and this alone will keep it fairly niche for a few years yet. More importantly there is an issue with headaches, at least on the console. I played Batman on the PC for at least 2 hours at a time and while there was some eye strain it didn't feel massively worse than if I had played the standard version. The 120hz monitor obviously helped here. Avatar on the 360 though did cause a headache – albeit a minor one - after about 20 minutes of play. Now this is hardly a scientific test, and clearly the issue could have been caused by anything, but for those tempted by 3D on their consoles this may be a factor. PC owners should be better off here, at least judging by my experience.Going back to the standard screen after a few hours of 3D does feel a little underwhelming and there clearly is something to get excited about here. 3D gaming won't make a bad game good but it could make a great game even better and for that reason alone it deserves attention.What do you think then? Tempted by 3D? Is it the future of gaming? Or is the price just too much of a barrier?
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox. How was Modern Warfare 2 for you?
It has spent hundreds of millions of dollars trying to take on Google, but Microsoft's Bing search engine was facing embarrassment today,  after it emerged that a security loophole could allow users to skim huge sums of money from the system without its knowledge.The security glitch, which is linked to a "cash back" system operated by Bing, potentially leaves users and retailers exposed to fake transactions. But despite an outcry online over the existence of the loophole, the world's largest company has responded to the issue by threatening legal action against the man who discovered the problem.The furore surrounds Bing's "cash back" system,intended to encourage internet users to opt for its search engineinstead of Google. First launched last year, before Microsoft rebranded its search website, the affiliate scheme offers users the chance to earn money back for every product they buy through the service.According to the site, Microsoft says "Bing cashback is a great way for you to save money when you shop online... you'll earn a percentage of the product price as cashback".But a technical flaw in the system was discovered by US entrepreneur Samir Meghani, the co-founder of price comparison website Bountii, who found that the way Bing cashback works means that a small piece of computer code could result in huge sums of money being credited to somebody's account.The "obvious flaw", he suggested, could also be used to block other users from getting their legitimate savings."I've never bought anything using Bing Cashback, but the balance of my account is $2,080.06," he wrote. "I'm not going to explain exactly how to generate the fake requests so that they actually post, but it's not complicated."Microsoft has not responded to requests for comment, but Meghani said that he received a letter from the company's lawyers asking him to take down his post on the subject - or face the consequences."Microsoft views the misuse of its programs and resultant injury extremely seriously," the company's lawyers told him in aletter published on the blog. "If necessary, Microsoft us prepared to consider further action to protect its rights."News of the glitch comes at an awkward moment for Microsoft and Bing,which launched in May under its new name. The Seattle-based software company is desperate to outstrip the dominance of Google, and tap into the lucrative search engine advertising market.But after the relaunch and a hugely expensive marketing campaign - in addition to several years spent working on its predecessor, Windows Live Search - Bing still handles less than 9% of all search traffic in the US, and an even smaller amount of queries worldwide."I am surprised they would go through this much trouble to make me take down information that is obvious to anyone reading their documentation," said Meghani.
&bull;Orangediscovered that was pretty heavy demand for the iPhone yesterday,selling an estimated 30,000 units in 24 hoursas it started selling the handset for the first time. Interesting numbers compared to themuch-vaunted launch of the Motorola Droid in the US, where the figure was 100,000 units over the weekend (for a country five times the size of Britain).&bull; Seems the technology industry job cuts aren't over:Electronic Artsannounced1,500 layoffs,Adobeis cutting a further680 jobs, whileAOLis alsoslashing more positions.&bull; The latest episode of theTech Weeklypodcastis live, featuring an interview with highly-rated music startup SoundCloud and our Jack conducting the honours as we induct our first candidate into our Tech Weekly Hall of Fame. Susi Weaser's in the host's chair once again, with Charles Arthur and yours truly playing Waldorf and Statler.Listen here.And with that, I'm off on holiday for a couple of weeks: I'll be leaving the breakfast briefing in the capable hands of Jack and Charles while I'm gone. See you soon!You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Amid the Modern Warfare maelstrom, spare a thought for Electronic Arts. The company hasrecently announcedthat it will be making 1,500 job cuts before the close of March 2010, after reporting second quarter losses of $391 million.Accordingto Gamesindustry.biz:Although solid details on teams affected have not yet been addressed, it's believed Black Box, Redwood Shores, Tiburon and Mythic have all been hit, and the publisher has said it will close 'several' facilities down entirely.It's thought that at least 12 projects have been canned as part of the streamlining process.So is EA in real trouble?The answer is no, especially with FIFA, Madden and other current releases performing well. It won't be much comfort to those facing unemployment but this would appear to be a tactical restructuring rather than a desperate bid for survival. The future, however, looks bleak for original games, and it's doubtful we'll see another winter in which the company relies heavily on fresh IP as it did last year with Dead Space and Mirror's Edge. In aconference call to investors and analystsCEO John Riccitiello, stated that the company would be concentrating on its established brands:"I think the better way to look at it would be that Electronic Arts has a core slate of games label and sports franchises that we will iterate on a either annual or bi-annual basis. And I think you know what those major titles are -- all of them are selling or have sold in their most recent edition 2 million units or more. After that, we've got The Sims and Hasbro, and frankly anything that doesn't measure up to looking like it can pencil out to be in very high profit contributor and high unit seller got cut from our title slate from this point going forward."Riccitiello remained upbeat in the call, however, pointing out that non-GAAP Q2 revenues were record-breaking for the company, while COO, John Schappert, highlighted the success of FIFA 2010, Madden, NFS Shift and Dragon Age Origins. There was also a lot of chat about making successful moves into the digital sector, with iPhone, mobile and downloadable console games playing a key role. This strategy was certainly highlighted earlier this week by the $300m purchase of Playfish, a developer specialising in social networking apps.The company's losses were put down to a 12% drop in US packaged game sales, plus disappointing recent perofrmance of the Wii console. Riccitello, however, had this to say about the retail business:"Two factors give us confidence. We believe there is room on the console price points. In the last cycle, the bulk of console sales occurred at $149 or below. Secondly, the console add-ons coming in 2010 will bring new consumers to the market. These factors will drive growth and extend this cycle."Next year, EA has Bad Company 2, Army of Two: The 40th Day, Mass Effect 2, Skate 3 and Crysis 2 to lean on, as well as the usual sports iterations. There will be some original IP, though - the massively ambitious APB is set for a March release, and there's Dante's Inferno and Rage to look forward to. There is also talk of reviving theMedal of Honorfranchise, a series that neatly symbolises EA's fortunes - the original WWII FPS mega-series was a massive seller back in the nineties, until many of the original development team left to form Infinity Ward. That studio went on to develop Call of Duty for Activision, which since its 2007 merger with Blizzard arguably replaced Electronic Arts as the world's biggest publisher. And while CoD grew in stature, Medal of Honor withered thanks to a succession of second-rate sequels.But could a new MoH - released alongside a stable of similarly thoroughbred brands - prove talismanic for EA next year, or will the company instead be salvaged by its increasingly confident dabbling in the digital and casual sectors?
On the latest Guardian Tech Weekly, we'll be talking to the brains behindSoundCloud, the online music sharing and collaboration service which was ranked number two in theTech Media Invest 100 list, and counts the like of Dave Grohl and Moby as its supporters.We'll also be flinging open the doors to Jack's Hall of Fame. Over the next few months we'll be filling it with the game changers of the technology world – and we want your help in doing so. This week we kick things off with the ancestor of home computing, the IBM PC.And of course, there's a look at what's been making the headlines this week, from Facebook to Skype, and we'll be scrutinising the blogs to see what's been creating a stir online.Don't forget to...• Comment below...• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Graham Nearn, who has died aged 76, was one of the most imaginative and innovative motoring entrepreneurs of the postwar era, and the man who almost single- handedly kept alive the iconic Lotus Seven sports car design. The brainchild of the Lotus founder Colin Chapman, whose Formula One cars were a dominant force in grand prix racing during the 1960s, the Lotus Seven was designed to offer state-of-the-art racing technology to enthusiasts on a budget. Bought in kit form for about £500, its Ford 1,172cc engine, could deliver up to 75bhp, giving impressive acceleration up to 80mph in a car that weighed only 500kg. But when Chapman decided to develop a more up-market image for the Lotus range, Nearn stepped in to ensure that the spindly little sports car survived and thrived.It was only a matter of time before the Lotus Seven became the Caterham Seven, as Nearn's south London motor business assumed responsibility for its development and manufacture. Nearn himself was a longtime Lotus aficionado. Born in Catford, south-east London, and educated at Purley grammar school, after national service in the army, followed by a spell in the timber trade, in 1959 he established Caterham Car Sales and Coachworks as one of the original Lotus centres specialising in the sales of Lotus products.Working with his then business partner David Wakefield, Nearn quickly built up a successful business, but although his company dealt with the sales and servicing of the entire Lotus range, Nearn was always fascinated by the Seven, which he had first seen on the Lotus stand at the 1957 London Racing Car Show. During the 1960s the Seven achieved iconic status in Patrick McGoohan's television series The Prisoner, in which Number 6 drove a Seven with the registration number KAR 120C, the original number plates of which Nearn had pinned to the wall of his office at the back of the showroom in Caterham for many years.Nearn appeared in the last episode of The Prisoner, returning the eponymous hero's car to his house in Buckingham Palace Road, and running a duster over it. Lotus had sold the original model used in earlier episodes and the public relations people at Lotus asked Nearn to deliver a suitably liveried replacement.When Chapman decided to axe the Lotus Seven in the early 1970s, Nearn successfully deployed all his powers of persuasion to convince him that it would make sense for Caterham not only to take over the sales and manufacture of the car, but to do so with official Lotus blessing. The deal was finally cemented in 1973 and Nearn would be inextricably identified with this quirky little British sports car for the rest of his life.Nearn was an astute and creative publicist and used Caterham's meagre budgets and limited resources to boost sales and promote the car in any way he could. A staunch and loyal friend to all his suppliers and business collaborators, he was popular with the motoring media and from time to time complete kits were handed to selected writers who could be relied upon to report on how easy it was to convert a box of bits into a brilliant road car.Nearn loved motor racing and in 1986 started the first Caterham "one-make" racing series, which became one of the most successful one-make racing categories in the world, with more than 800 active competitors involved.In the 1980s Nearn progressively passed over operational control to a new generation management team led by his son, Simon, and assumed the figurehead role as chairman. The car continued developing and evolving, but the Nearn family eventually sold the business in 2005. Nearn is survived by his wife, Jane, sons Simon and Robert and daughters Nina and Eliza, all of whom worked in the family business at various times over the past 40 years.•Graham Bradshaw Nearn, automotive engineer and entrepreneur, born 20 September 1933; died 24 October 2009
