The New York Times ran aninteresting articleon Saturday, looking into how Hillary Clinton may be using heropposition to adult videogame contentas means of garnering support for the Democrats:"Dick Morris, formerly a political strategist in the Clinton White House, said of the drive against games, 'It is a political effort by Hillary and other Democrats to try to create a morality issue, a 'values' issue, that they can use.'"There's nothing like a moral crusade to get worried voters on your side - especially where technology is concerned. Most parents still don't quite understand what their children are actuallydoingin front of those mysterious consoles all night. They may have vague memories of playing Pac-Man in eighties arcades, but possibly didn't realise - until they watch little Johnny play for a few minutes - that you can beat realistically detailed people to death with crow bars these days. Oh the fear, the horror.Are videogames important enough to become a political hot potato? Of course they are. We live in confusing times where supposedly backward terrorist groups conduct incredibly sophisticated attacks on global targets, in which the weather itself has turned against us. Indefinable, unpredictable, unexplainable - these forces are beyond the control, beyond the very comprehension of most parents. But their techno-fear finds a solid, stable nemesis in the violent videogame. This is a battle that can be won, or at least understood.The NYT feature earmarks EA's Godfather conversion as a possible blue touch paper for a new, more fervid attack on adult videogame content. We've seen games used in this way before - the profile ofSenator Joe Liebermanhas been significantly enhanced by his history of run-ins with the videogame industry. But now there's a Clinton onboard and a whole generation of confused Americans looking for answers, for scapegoats.What exactly do they want? Tighter classification? Censorship? Or for the world to be understandable again, bit by bit, enemy by enemy...Update:The California State Assembly has just passed a bill to prevent the sale of violent videogames to minors. Find out more about Senator Leland Yee's billhere, and the IEMA's (Interactive Entertainment Merchants Association) responsehere.Follow other developments in American videogame legislation atGamepolitics.com...
It has come to pass: internet telephony firm Skype has been bought.By eBay. For $2.6bn.eBay agreed to buy Skype Technologies for $2.6 billion in cash and stock, adding 50 million users of software for making phone calls over the Internet.The acquisition may include as much as $1.5 billion in additional payments based on Skype's performance, the companies said in a Business Wire statement today. The purchase of closely held Skype, based in Luxembourg, consists of $1.3 billion in cash and 32.4 million shares of San Jose, California-based eBay.Dotcom days are here again. It's the latest in a series of acquisitions this year which are reinvigorating a technology sector which was thought (by the mainstream at least) to still be in the doldrums of 2000. In fact, the market's been vibrant for some time: it's part of what is making technology a very exciting subject at the moment.But Skype has obviously decided - possibly apropos ofGoogle Talk- that its best interests lie in the hands of somebody bigger and more powerful. And why eBay? Well, you can't get much bigger - and it's a company with a wide history of buyouts. EBay's fingers are now in a huge number of pies around the globe.Cry "Havoc" and let slip the geeks of war!
"Radical" and "revolutionary" aren't the kind of words you expect to find in the same sentence as "systems of information classification". Librarians, after all, have never had the most exciting of public images. But a revolution in how information is organised is exactly what is happening on the web. "Folksonomy" - the word is derived from "taxonomy" - adopts an ingenious strategy for imposing some organisation on the endlessly rising flood of data online: persuade the internet's millions of users to do it themselves.The heart of the concept is "tagging" - the system whereby individuals assign their own keywords to pieces of information. Take the photo-sharing website Flickr (www.flickr.com), or Delicious (http://del.icio.us), a "social bookmarking" site that allows users to share tips about webpages they like. On Flickr, for example, a photograph of your dog in a car on a street in London might be given the tags "dogs", "cars" and "London". Different users on Delicious might all come across a website on barbecuing, say, and label it with the keywords "cooking" or "barbecue" or "recipes".It's improvisational, and haphazard. But what emerges in the aggregate, when enough people take part is a rough-and-ready alternative to traditional forms of organisation. In an old-fashioned encyclopaedia, a tiny cadre of experts decide where each piece of data goes. In a folksonomy, pieces of data can be put into multiple categories determined by users, accommodating the fact that our mental frameworks for thinking about the world aren't all identical.Folksonomies aren't much good for detailed research: searching under "recipes", for example, won't bring up recipe pages that users have tagged with something different. But in the context of today's information explosion, it may be as good as it's going to get. As Joshua Schachter, the founder of Delicious, told the geek elite at the O'Reilly emerging technology conference in San Diego earlier this year, folksonomies give people "tools to trim hedges in their data-gardens".The greatest thing about folksonomy (unlike, say, the giant communal online encylopaedia project Wikipedia) may be that it doesn't rely on people contributing to the system through sheer selflessness. Most people use tags on sites such as Delicious, first and foremost, to organise their own information in a way that makes sense to them, to help them navigate their own stuff. It's almost as a side-effect that this is creating something from which everyone else can benefit: vast, democratically structured frameworks of organisation that ought to leave librarians at least a little concerned about their future job security.
It might be Sunday, but the office is buzzing with activity. Why?Because the Guardian isrelaunching tomorrow. The paper is changing shape and size, and will be a snazzy full-colour piece of hardcore design work.As a result of the shift, Online will be changing too - something that Victor Keegan mentioned in hisfinal columnas editor of the technology section. Keep your eyes peeled for what's coming up.Vic's still going strong, by the way, and all day he's been following developments around our Farringdon Road HQ on our newGuardian editors' blog. If you get sweaty looking at pictures of staff members in increasingly declining states of mental fortitude, then you're in for a treat.
Over at Poynter Online, they've marked the first anniversary ofRathergate, the weblog-firestorm that enveloped theCBS anchor.I think it's interesting that Rathergate has become known as the big story that first put weblogs on the news-media map. Indeed, weblogs played a key role in publicizing that story, and in keeping it visible. But Rathergate didn't start in a blog.So does Dan Rather dispute count as the breakthrough for bloggers? The most zealous end of the anti-Mainstream Media would like to think they were there earlier: Andrew Sullivan would likely claim theJayson Blairaffair for bloggers, and certainlyTrent Lott's resignationwas. That was back in late 2002.Ah, where did it all begin?
Last week, Motorola launched what is probably one of the first hundred phones to have a built in music player... but the first associated with Apple's iTunes. In The Observer,John Naughtonblames its underwhelming reception on Apple protecting its iPod franchise:The real significance of the iPhone is the way it illustrates why companies find it hard to innovate. The difficulty stems from a simple, unpalatable fact - namely that radical innovation generally threatens your existing business model. Or, in MBA-speak, it cannibalises your core business.The iPhone is considerably less than the sum of its parts for one reason: it was designed by a company that has become a prisoner of its previous success at innovation.Apple's lucrative discovery and exploitation of online music transformed its image and its corporate prospects. But the assets it acquired in the process are now so valuable it would be corporate madness to do anything that might undermine them. And yet that is precisely what radical innovation would achieve. So Apple cannot do it.Comment:Odd that John Naughton apparently thinks iTunes was the first legal music download service, considering that Peter Gabriel founded OD2 in 1999. My possibly flaky memory suggests that Listen.com, Pressplay and MusicNet were also out before iTunes....
If eating in Michelin-starred restaurants were an Olympic sport - and it really ought to be - Pim Techamuanvivit would win gold, easy. In the last week of April, Pim sampled the tasting menu at the three-star Fat Duck in Bray, recently named best restaurant in the world. A few days after that she was at a French three-star, Michel Bras in Laguiole, a stopping-off point en route to her dinner at the famed three-star El Bulli in Catalonia. She then returned to Paris by way of the two-star restaurant of Olivier Roellinger, Les Maisons de Bricourt at Cancale. While staying in the French capital she ate at the two-star L'Astrance - twice - at the two-star Le Meurice once, the three-star L'Ambrosie and, finally, at Pierre Gagnaire's famed three-star temple to gastronomy on rue Balzac. In all, Pim managed 23 Michelin stars in the space of about six weeks.There are many remarkable things about this odyssey, but perhaps the most extraordinary of them all is that Pim is not the size of a bus, or even a modest camper van. She is a petite and perfectly formed thirtysomething Thai woman who happens to be blessed with a high-end food habit, the money to pay for it and a very forgiving metabolism. Frankly, if I didn't like her I'd hate her.Instead, like many thousands of other people worldwide, I count myself as one of Pim's fans, courtesy of her extraordinary food blog,chezpim.com. Want to know what that meal at Le Meurice looked like? Go to chezpim. She photographed every single dish, in glorious digital colour, and has posted the pictures. Want to know what she thought of the coolest new bistros in Paris? Go to chezpim.Around 10,000 people from around the world do so every week, many of them leaving behind lush, drooling comments. 'Hi Pim. Your pictures made me empty,' writes one. Or, 'Is it me or was that meal, like, 65 per cent dessert?' To them she is, rightly, considered the queen of the food bloggers. At times, reading her website, it feels like this really is Pim's world. The rest of us are just living in it.But Pim's world is not simply about the flummery and gloss of Michelin stars. Like all people of true appetite (a polite phrase for 'greedy') she is obsessed by food in all its forms: she visits diners and grill houses, eats street food and takeaways, shops in exotic corner stores and farmers' markets. In her time she has written about all of these things. Partly this is because she has made her home in San Francisco, a city which is particularly well endowed with ad hoc eating opportunities. One morning, just after she has returned from one of her mouth-tours of Europe, she agrees to meet up with me for a Pim-style tour of her town. 'San Francisco is big on Chinese food and Hispanic food,' she says, keenly. 'Though the best place for tacos is actually an hour outside the city, in Watsonville. In Watsonville they do great brain, tripe or tongue tacos. I really like those.'Instead of brain tacos we will start our day with breakfast at Tartine, one of those faux French joints the Americans do really well. Here they even serve caf&eacute; au lait in big handleless bowls, which they don't do much in Paris any more. It's a converted industrial-looking space, with white-painted brick walls and big glass cabinets heaving with delicious looking pastries. 'The most fun time to come here is a Sunday morning when a significant proportion of the clientele are naughty girls who didn't make it home last night,' says Pim. 'It's the walk of shame breakfast.'Over coffee and croissants Pim describes the journey that has taken her from her native Bangkok to queen of the bloggers. She grew up, she says, in a large upper-middle-class Thai family, all living together in various houses on their own compound. She was closest to her grandfather, Surin, who had his own cook. 'I'd never see my grandfather in the kitchen,' she says. 'I'm not even sure he knew where it was.' But he did have strong ideas about the correct way to do things where Thai food was concerned. 'When we used to go to restaurants we could only order three things in each place because they were the only things they could do well according to grandfather, and of course he was right.'In the early Nineties Pim moved to the US to study cognitive science, which led eventually to a series of high-flying jobs in the technology sector, ending up at the gargantuan Cisco Systems. Working in the tech business during the great internet boom had many advantages, not least of which was money. Pim soon had enough to indulge her growing interest in food and restaurants. 'It's my vice,' she says.In 2001 she started her blog. 'But it wasn't about food then. I used to write these long emails to all my friends around the world and they would be addressed to 30 people, so I thought why not put them on a website?' Mostly she wrote about books she'd read and films she'd seen and what was going on in her life. But because she eats out and travels a lot, people started asking for recommendations. 'In 2003 I started writing about food and recipes.' The traffic to her site exploded. 'I went through this period of, "Oh my God, who are all these people?"' For a while she edited out all the personal stuff. 'Now I've settled into a comfortable mix of the two.'It's this wry, sassy personal take that makes for such engrossing reading. One recent post, for example, was about a trip to London with her boyfriend David Kinch a top chef at Manresa, San Francisco, one of the top 50 restaurants in the world. (They got together after she wrote approving reviews of his restaurant on her blog.) She gave us a perfect ringside account of the meeting of the world's greatest chefs including a conversation she had with guest of honour Paul Bocuse: 'The conversation was rather short, what with all the noise in the room and the fact that he was 75 hundred years old and quite hard of hearing.'It's time for us to move on. We jump in a cab to the Richmond district on the west side of the city, where there is a Chinatown the tourists never visit. She leads me into the massive May Wah supermarket at 707 Clement Street, which is where she comes when buying ingredients for her Thai dishes. She is regarded by her many friends as one of the best Thai chefs outside Thailand, and has been known to fly to London just to cook dinner for them.Along one wall of the May Wah are bubbling tanks of live fish and shellfish including alarmingly penile clams, called geoduck, which are so big they have cracked their own shells. On the butchery slabs there are trays of chicken hearts and chunks of wobbling, coagulated blood which Pim says 'is clearly fresh because it is almost a fluorescent red.'Down the street we come to the Clement BBQ, a caf&eacute; specialising in Chinese meats. There are mahogany-coloured ducks hanging in the windows and a whole side of crispy pig. We can't resist, and order a portion which the guy behind the counter cleavers off and chops up for us. This pork has the richest, sweetest crackling I have ever tasted.Our cab takes us back across town to a San Francisco institution, the Swan Oyster Depot on Polk Street. It's small and narrow, with a long marble-topped bar and queues stretching out the door from 11am onwards. 'This is just one of those places you have to do,' says Pim, as we slip onto a couple of vacant stools. It originally opened in 1912, and has been in the Sancimino family since 1946. The Sancimino boys who run it now are big guys with white aprons and thick forearms, from shucking so many oysters. We share a mixed plate of Blue Points, Kumamotos, some Miyagi from Oregon and some Olympias.It sets us up perfectly for a tram ride up and down the San Francisco switchbacks to the old Ferry Building down by the water. This is gastro-porn heaven, home to some of the best producers in the city We go to the Cowgirl Creamery and, under Pim's watchful gaze, sample slivers of cheeses with names like Humboldt Fog and Pleasant Ridge Reserve. 'The American cheese laws are ridiculous,' she says. Nothing unpasteurised is allowed unless it is over 90 days old. We have a look at the Hog Island Oyster Company which, Pim says, serves 'a very good clam chowder'. Then we move on up to Grant Avenue, the heart of the city's famous other Chinatown. She leads me into Chinese sweet shops where, alongside usual offerings of chocolates and toffees, there are buckets of candied dried shrimps and sugared squid. She takes me across to one of the dried food stores where, in racks of jars behind the counter, are birds' nests waiting for their moment in soup. I had never realised just how expensive they are. There are birds' nests here selling at $3,840 a pound.Just beyond the On Sang Poultry Company, where the assistants are nonchalantly putting live chickens into paper bags before stapling them shut and punching air holes, is the Golden Gate Bakery. This is another San Francisco institution, though it isn't much to look at: a tiny shop front with barely space for the queue that quickly builds up. 'Oh, but the custard tarts are something special,' Pim says. We eventually get our custard tarts, still warm from the oven. They cost 60 cents each, less if you get them by the dozen. Standing there in the street, with crumbs of pastry down my front and listening to the sound of clucking chickens heading towards somebody's dinner table, we agree that our tour is over. I have to go for a lie down and Pim has a blog to attend to. Earlier this year, after a long stretch earning the silicon dollar, Pim decided she'd made enough to take a bit of time out to concentrate on her food writing. She is considering writing a recipe book. She has been sounding out agents. Television producers have been sniffing around her. None of this is surprising. Even amid the anarchy of the web good taste will out and Pim, queen of the food bloggers, mistress of the Michelin stars, is sodden with it. For the moment she is that rare thing in the food world, a genuine cult figure. She is unlikely to stay that way for long.Pim's secret address book for San FranciscoTasting menu at ManresaA leisurely-paced parade of small bites.320 Village Lane, Los Gatos (001 408 354 4330)Omakase at Kiss SeafoodAn immaculate and deceptively simple meal of pristine fish and seafood.1700 Laguna Street, San Francisco (001 415 474 2866)Wine pairing at the French LaundryThe choices are always interesting.6640 Washington Street, Yountville (001 707 944 2380)Drinking at SoifGreat wines from the famous Berkeley wine merchant Kermit Lynch.105 Walnut Avenue, Santa Cruz (001 831 423 2020)Burger at Zuni Caf&eacute;It's delicious. And it haunts my dreams.1658 Market Street, San Francisco (001 415 552 2522)Asparagus tempura at the Ferry Plaza Farmers MarketFat, fresh lightly-battered spears.1 Ferry Building, San Francisco (001 415 291 3276)Roasted goose at Yee'sRoasted goose has a much better texture than duck. Another well-kept secret is the $2 plate special every week day at 3pm.1131 Grant Avenue, San Francisco (001 415 576 1818)Bakra (goat curry) at ShalimarWho said there's no good Pakistani curry house in San Francisco? Order the daily special bakra.532 Jones Street, San Francisco (001 415 928 0333)Mexican food at Pajaro Food CenterFamilies bring their own pots to buy menudo - tripe and pig's foot stew - and other specialities in bulk on weekends.307 Salinas Road, Watsonville (001 831 724 3654)Eat my words ... the world's best food blogs1.Chocolate and Zucchiniwww.chocolateandzucchini.com/Zucchini - so this is an American blog?No, French actually. It's the blog of a young woman from Paris called Clothilde.Pourquoi donc l'Americanisme?Clothilde lived for a while in San Francisco.I get it. Freedom fries all round.Not quite, she blogs about good healthy food - the zucchini bit; and bad sweet food - the chocolate bit.Savoury-sweet, Gallo-West Coast choc-veg fusion?If you like. Or just elegant writing about nice food. Clothilde is the closest food blogging gets to aristocracy.2.Noodlepiehttp://noodlepie.typepad.comSounds like something you get at a petrol station, like Pukka pies and scotch eggs.Actually it's a food blog about Vietnam.Or a cheesy pet name for your boyfriend.I said it's about Vietnam - the people, the sounds, the smells, the tastes.Hence noodles.Yes. And other things. Pieman, the author, is a witty travel writer and accomplished photographer.What if I don't like noodles?Saigon has a wide variety of delectable treats to tempt your palate.What if I don't like Saigon?Now you're just being silly.3.101 Cookbookswww.101cookbooks.comLet me guess, mad vampish woman kidnaps 101 cute cookbooks to turn their jackets into fashionable coats.That's right. And then Nigella Lawson and Jamie Oliver go on an adventure to rescue them.Really!?No, of course not. It's a blog by a woman in San Francisco who had so many cookbooks she decided to go through them all one recipe at a time. And blog about it.How far has she got?She started in February 2003, so the 101st recipe was a while back.And her favourite cook book so far?There's a top 10 on the site. Stephan Pyles's Southwest Vegetarian comes in at No 1. Nigel Slater's Appetite is No 2.4.Is my blog burning?www.ismyblogburning.comI don't know, what does burning blog smell like?Don't be silly, it's the name for a site that brings bloggers together for a sort of online cooking jamboree.How does it work?Food bloggers take it in turns to host sessions around a particular theme or ingredient - fish, rice, eggs, for example. Other bloggers pitch in with their recipes and photos.So it's a competition.Kind of. In a cosy, peer-to-peer internet community sort of way.Sounds a bit like hippy talk to me.Have another slice of lentil flan.5.Accidentalhedonistwww.accidentalhedonist.comNice name. Nice art deco design on the site too. I'm thinking Great Gatsby meets Anne Tyler.Hmm. Think more along the lines of Nigella meets Michael Moore.Urgh. I've got a fat man in a baseball cap winking seductively at me in my head.That's all wrong. You should have a sassy woman who knows her food but also has acerbic comments to make about corporate America and the food industry.Sounds nice.Sharp and sweet at the same time. Like a good lemon tart, washed down with plenty of dessert wine.Not fat and decadent like a Big Mac dissolved in weak lager?Definitely not.... and finally, Chez Pimhttp://chezpim.typepad.comOK, I'm getting the hang of this now. Let me guess. Pim writes about all manner of culinary goodies, flying between San Francisco, Paris and London in search of the perfect profiterole.That's about right.Are you serious?Yes, you were right the first time.Wow. So what does Pim cook?Great Thai food but this is not the place for recipes. The international jet set doesn't have time to cook. This is all about checking out glam restaurants and idling in cafes.Nice work if you can get it.Sorry, did you say something? I was distracted by a window full of patisseries on the Rue Bonaparte. Oh! Must dash. Gotta plane to catch, ciao!&#183;Rafael Behr
It wasn't long ago that the word 'diesel' sent a shiver of contempt through the bones of any civilised motorist, conjuring up images of rattling tractors and smoking lorries. But today, the likes of BMW, Alfa Romeo and Audi all produce sporty diesels which manage to combine grown-up common sense (the fuel gives better consumption, it's environmentally cleaner and the engines go on for ever) with adolescent performance.Some brands, however, held out against diesel as long as possible. One of these was Saab. The independent company - founded in Sweden in 1937 as Svenska Aeroplan Aktiebolaget (Swedish Aircraft Company) - clung to its four-star roots until it was bought by General Motors, which set about bringing the Scandinavians into line.This gave Saab's die-hard fans palpitations (whisper it, but the 9-3 now shares much of its innards with Vauxhall's Vectra). However, the black-rimmed and white-shirted brigade needn't have worried. The Saab is still as distinct and impressive as it ever was, and its latest, tax-efficient 1.9 TiD 150bhp - which replaces the original 2.2 TiD - delivers a ride as smooth and relaxing as anything you'd receive in a Swedish massage parlour.Britain's love affair with Saab started in 1960; since then, all things Swedish - from Abba and meatballs to flat-pack bookcases (though we're still struggling with the herrings) - have become the backbone of every self-respecting Hoxtonite. And Saab has been there to cash in as the ultimate statement of understated style. This year Saab sold more cars in the UK than in any other country, including Sweden. It's a trend set to continue, with dealers now taking orders for the 9-3 SportWagon and with Saab's fastest-ever road-going engine on its way - the all-new 250bhp 2.8 litre V6 Turbo.Saabs are different from the lines of homogeneous fleet cars that clog our transport arteries. Step into one and you'll spend five minutes looking for the ignition (it nestles between the front seats). It's also not a key - more a hi-tech stump. In theory, this is great, but my cunning eight-year-old was able to slide his arm forward from the back and turn the engine off when I wasn't looking. Saab clearly enjoys playing hide and seek - the wing-mirror control is discreetly placed on the upward slant of the window post, while the handbrake is an invisible curve of plastic in the central console - when disengaged it folds flat. By the time you've adjusted your mirrors, found the key and discovered the handbrake you'll probably have a parking ticket.Despite being under 20 grand (it comes in at &#163;18,995), the Saab packs a premium punch. The memory-assisted seats are without doubt the most comfortable I've sat in this year. The instruments are well-signposted, knobs are rubbery, switches are finger-light, and the indicator has the resonant tick of a grandfather clock in a Strindberg drama. Best of all, though, is the cup-holder which pirouettes like Jane Torvill. As they say in design circles, it's the details that count.
From the first moment I saw the Stratos, I fell in love with it - even though it nearly pushed me off the road on which I was walking. That was back in the Seventies, when I was a spectator at the RAC Rally in Donnington. Over the next few years I spotted the Lancia once or twice while on holiday in Europe and my passion for the car grew.I became the proud owner of my Stratos - one of only 10 in the UK - in 2001. Originally designed as a rally car, my Stratos was previously owned by the famous German racing dynasty, the Stuck family. It has a 2.5l, V6 engine and makes a low, gravelly sound like no other car. With its Ferrari engine, rally sport suspension and sleek Italian styling, I reckon this is the best sports car in the world.Whenever I take it out to a vintage show - or just for a spin in the country - I usually have offers from people wanting to buy it, but I can never see me letting this car go.I am taking part in the Wales Rally GB this month as an amateur co-driver, so owning the Stratos gives me a real sense of sporting history. It's great to compete in the modern rally and still have a little piece of racing heritage back in the garage at home.&#183;Love your car? Contact us atmy.wheels@observer.co.uk
With mobile phones making their way into younger and younger hands, I suspect increasing numbers of parents will be feeling some concern about the costs associated with these contraptions. However, according to a recent report, mobile phone users may have a price to pay that is not merely financial: the Chartered Society of Physiotherapists has warned that children fond of texting are at risk of developing repetitive strain injury (RSI).RSI is believed to stem from repeated movements that can damage and cause inflammation in the soft tissues around the hand and/or wrist. While RSI is a term which is commonly used to cover a range of different ailments, it is not uncommon for RSI sufferers to be affected by a specific condition known as carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS). This malady is related to compression of one of the three main nerves to the hand (the median nerve) as it runs through the wrist. Classic symptoms of CTS include pain, numbness or tingling in the thumb, index and middle fingers, and inside of the ring finger.Unnatural bending of the wrist is thought to be a risk factor in CTS. Keyboard workers are at particular risk here, and may benefit from the use of a keyboard rest which helps keep the wrists straight during typing. From an ergonomic perspective, it is believed that keeping the forearms parallel to the floor helps to prevent and alleviate CTS. Painkilling medication may help to quell the discomfort associated with CTS and RSI. From a natural health perspective, foods which may assist here through their anti-inflammatory action include omega-3 fats (found in flaxseed oil and oily fish, such as salmon, trout and herring), ginger and turmeric.One specific nutrient that can be effective in the treatment of CTS is vitamin B6. Studies have found that sufferers of CTS tend to be deficient in this nutrient. Supplementation with this nutrient has been found, in some studies, to improve and sometimes completely resolve the symptoms of CTS. Foods rich in vitamin B6 include avocado, nuts and bananas. However, the typical dosages found to be useful in studies can't be achieved through diet alone.Those interested in trying B6 for their CTS should take 100-200mg each day for three months. After this, take a B-complex supplement that contains about 20mg of vitamin B6. It should be borne in mind that very high doses of B6 may cause reversible nerve damage, and symptoms, ironically, that are quite similar to those of CTS. However, the evidence shows that the risk of this is only relevant with daily dosages of B6 above 200mg per day.Dear JohnI am 51 and, for the past three years, have been suffering from thrombophlebitis. Painkillers relieve the discomfort, but is there a natural alternative?NMThrombophlebitis is characterised by the inflammation and the formation of tiny blood clots in a vein. Typical symptoms include swelling, redness and tenderness in and around the affected area. It can occur as a result of injury to a superficial vein, and is more common in people who suffer from varicose veins.A major component of the tiny blood clots that occur in thrombophlebitis is a blood protein called fibrin. The body breaks down fibrin naturally in time, but foods, such as garlic, onions, cayenne pepper and ginger, have the ability to accelerate this process, so include these in your diet.I also recommend you take bromelain. This extract of pineapple helps to break down fibrin, and acts as a natural clot dissolver. It is also anti-inflammatory, and can reduce pain and swelling. Take 500mg of bromelain, three times a day, on an empty stomach.&#183;If you have any issues you would like Dr Briffa to address in his column, please email him onjohn.briffa@observer.co.uk. Please note that Dr Briffa cannot enter into any correspondence. You can also visitwww.drbriffa.com. Before following any recommendations in this column, you should consult your own medical adviser about any medical problems or special health conditionsNutrition newsHigh blood pressure is believed to be a risk factor for cardiovascular diseases, such as heart disease and stroke. Shedding excess weight will help to reduce blood pressure naturally. However, a recent study published in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition suggests that how weight is lost may have a bearing on how effectively blood pressure is reduced. In this research a group of middle-aged men were assigned to eat either a low-fat diet (LF), or a low-fat diet with a particular emphasis on food low in sodium, and high in potassium and calcium (known as the Well diet). For a given amount of weight loss, the Well diet brought about a significantly greater reduction in blood pressure.This study suggests that a diet low in sodium, and rich in potassium and calcium, may have particular benefits in terms of blood pressure control. Fruits and vegetables are rich in potassium, while natural yoghurt, green leafy vegetables, nuts, seeds and tinned salmon and sardines are good sources of calcium. Including plenty of these foods in a diet designed for weight loss may offer additional benefits in terms of blood pressure control, and such a diet may prevent heart attacks and strokes.
Jamie McCoy used to have his own patch on a London street. It was a strip of the Victoria Embankment where he would sit every day and beg. He might have earned enough money by mid-morning to convert his cup of grimy copper coins into a crisp note and then convert his crisp note into a bag of heroin. Then he would go back to work, begging to get some breakfast. He lived on the streets for 30 years.Jamie had a buddy. No one survives on the streets on their own. They had been knocking around together, homeless and wasted for what seemed like their whole lives. Then, one day, the buddy lay down in the middle of the road and died.'I thought he was just having one of his naps. He used to do that, just lie down and have a sleep wherever he stood,' says Jamie over a pint and a cigarette in an east London pub. 'That affected me a lot.'Jamie started to feel lonely.Around a year later, he found himself sharing a hit with a young woman, barely out of her teens. She looked twice her age. She reminded him of himself a lifetime ago. This time, he felt lonely and angry. He threw his last bag of heroin off Waterloo Bridge, wen to a shelter run by Crisis, the homelessness charity, and withdrew from the drug, from his old self.That was five years ago. Jamie learned to read and write, stuff he had missed at school. He loved it. And sitting at a computer in the London office of Crisis, he discovered the web.Here was a place where Jamie was not an ex-junkie. Here, Jamie was a one-man publishing empire, broadcasting the experience of homelessness to the world through Jamie's Big Voice, his blog.'I think of it as an independent newspaper,' he says with pride. 'A newspaper that I can trust, because all the sources in it are mine.'Jamie's Big Voice gets readers from around the world, sometimes in their hundreds, sometimes in their thousands. He was invited to a party in Westminster where the Speaker of the House of Commons claimed to be a reader of the blog. That pleased Jamie. It could only happen now, early in the 21st century, the time when a homeless bloke with a borrowed computer can have the same reach around the world as Rupert Murdoch. It is a precious and fragile moment, a golden age of web democracy.And all just under 15 years since the internet ceased to be a thing - a network of computers - and became a place. That was when Tim Berners-Lee, a British scientist based in Switzerland, developed a way of linking documents to each other in a big web. That was when the frontier to a new society was opened. That was when it became possible for Jamie McCoy to swap a patch of the Embankment for a plot of the web.The size of Jamie's audience depends on who has linked to him. And blogging is all about links, a line of code that turns a piece of information into a destination, a refutation, a rebuttal, a recommendation.One new blog is started every couple of seconds. The total number is hard to estimate because no one agrees on the definition. Around 15 million is a conservative guess. The total number of pages on the web is around 600 billion, or 100 per person on the planet. The number of people with some access to the web is around one billion.But today's bloggers occupy a special role. They are, in fact, the second-generation web citizens, the first being the pioneer geeks who developed their sites in the early Nineties. Unlike the trailblazers, the new wave needed no significant technical know-how. Most of them don't speak the programming languages from which their blogs are built. They occupy digital prefabs and trailers crafted from easy-to-use, free software. They eke out an audience through the barter of tips, links and files. Their currency is trust. The community is open to all, self-policing, keen on transparency and ruthless about dishonesty.In an era whose triumphant idea is capitalism, where success is generally measured in the accumulation of wealth, it is hard to conceive of a parallel society established and self-governed on principles of trust and common ownership. But it exists. The biggest aggregation of human experience and knowledge ever created belongs to everyone, it is available on demand and it is free.But for how long? Ranged against the new culture of digital freedom is a strange coalition of spooks, suits and vandals. There are governments unable to resist the technology that can track our every move; there are corporations lusting after the attention of the 2 billion eyeballs focused on screens; and there are the spammers, clogging up the net with junk mail, hijacking computers to peddle trash.'The internet, the first many-to-many medium, was going to liberate us from the tyranny of centralised media and the rancid consumerism that says we are merely receptacles for what Big Business, including Big Media, wants us to buy,' writes Dan Gillmor, a San Francisco-based writer, in We the Media: Grassroots Journalism by the People for the People. 'But the clampdown has begun. Everywhere we look, the forces of centralisation and authority are finding ways to slow and, perhaps, halt altogether the advances we've made.'Gillmor is a chronicler of Citizen Media, the movement to transform news and entertainment from a one-way transaction (we make, you consume) to a conversation (we all make, we all swap). Taking its form from the web, it is oceanic, vast and shapeless. It has no leadership, although it has some poster children - Wikipedia, the excellent, collaboratively built encyclopedia; Ohmynews, the Korean newspaper written by its readers - but it is bigger than any site.It is big enough to strike envy and fear into businessmen and politicians. Governments have been slow to appreciate the social changes effected by technologies, but quick to see their potential application for exerting control and invading privacy.Bloggers have already been harassed and imprisoned by repressive regimes around the world. China has successfully walled off the entire internet for millions of users. The technology that enables governments to hoard emails and trace every click of the mouse across the web is too alluring for liberal democracies to ignore. Web snooping will almost certainly form a part of UK anti-terror legislation later this year.Then there are the big media and entertainment corporations of the US. They are peeved because their audience is being poached by a DIY army of online publishers and broadcasters. Big Media also own the copyright to most of the English-speaking world's popular culture, a resource that is systematically plundered, mashed up, remixed, copied and passed around the web.Not surprisingly, the owners don't like it when people share their intellectual property around without paying dues. Stealing, they call it. They will sue if they catch you. If you are too young, they will sue your parents.Business also lobbies hard for politicians to make that sort of thing even more against the law than it already is. The result, say the citizen journalists, is a repressive intellectual property regime that stomps on creativity. The media companies see the remixers and swappers as apologists for piracy and organised crime.'Most of those currently in the hallways of power have no clue about digital technologies or the cultural shift now taking place,' says JD Lasica, executive director of Ourmedia.org, an online creative archive. 'The entertainment industries still wield considerable clout on Capitol Hill.'But for most web citizens, the trench warfare that goes on between digital freedom fighters and Hollywood studios is not the problem. The online party for them is being spoiled by the crooks, pervs and fraudsters.Sharon Lemon is in charge of policing Web UK and she doesn't let her children visit internet chatrooms. She isn't hysterical about the threat of paedophiles, but nor is she naive. As Detective Chief Superintendent of the National Hi-Tech Crime Unit, she knows the score. DCS Lemon used to head Operation Ore, the excavation of Britain's underground child pornography network. When it started digging, it found 7,000 people. That was in 1998, when plenty of Britons didn't have internet access. That means it isn't all just a moral panic. There really are a lot of people who use the net for child porn. DCS Lemon is in a good position to see how accurately the web reflects the world that created it. All of human experience is there, including the dark side. And, without any borders, it is very hard to police.'If anything, the internet works for criminals much better than it does for anyone else,' she says. 'It gives all the advantages of global networking without any of the constraints of the law.'If you shut down an illegal site in Manchester, the same stuff appears the next day in Moscow. In addition to the paedophiles, police are chasing a new global breed of robbers, blackmailers and money launderers. Meanwhile, creeping up the political agenda is hate crime and the propagation of terrorist ideas by internet.A technology novice could easily conclude from newspaper reports that the portion of the web not published by reputable media companies has been colonised exclusively by sex offenders, jihadi fundamentalists and a few crackpot conspiracy theorists.Not so, says DCS Lemon: 'You have to work to the theory that most people are generally good.'But for large media owners, fear of the poorly lit, sinister back alleys of the web is useful. It drives people into 'walled gardens', safe havens of manicured web content, provided on subscription; guaranteed free of bad guys; well stocked with familiar brands.The problem with walled gardens is that people get bored. They hanker for the vagaries of life on the frontier. Once there, they soon discover that the dark side does not leap out at you; you have to hunt it down. The medium isn't to blame.That is what makes the web a 'pull' medium. You make the show yourself, another reason why traditional media are flummoxed. They only know how to push stuff down the pipes. They keep building walls around the garden as fast as the web users breach them.Rupert is 74 years old and, by his own admission, a bit long in the tooth for this internet malarkey. The next generation, he feels, get it better.'I'm a digital immigrant. I wasn't weaned on the web, nor coddled on a computer,' Murdoch said in April. 'My two young daughters, on the other hand, will be digital natives.'Murdoch was speaking earlier this year to the American Society of Newspaper Editors. He had been invited in his capacity as chief executive of News Corporation.News Corp had, until recently, generally failed to grasp the significance of the web. Its few ventures online had failed. But, suddenly, there is vim in the old empire.'The digital native doesn't send a letter to the editor any more. She goes online and starts a blog. We need to be the destination for those bloggers,' he said.Deed followed word. News Corp has set aside a war chest of $1-2bn for online developments. It recently bought Intermix Media, owner of Myspace.com, a self-contained community of blogs for teens and twentysomethings. Murdoch is also in the market for a search engine. The News Corp strategy can be simply pieced together: take possession of the web allotments that all but the most hardened geeks depend on to pitch their blogging tents, then rent them out; sweeten the deal with privileged access to music and movies.The goal must be to marshal the energy that bloggers currently expend on creating their own content into the consumption of industry-manufactured, pay-per-view content. Big Media want to retain the marketable frisson of Citizen Media and weed out the current culture of activism. The way to achieve this is by monopolising not only the copyright material that web users like to play with, but the tools that make it so easy for them to play.'Nearly every day brings word of an entertainment company forming an alliance with a technology provider to corral an audience into walled gardens and force it to behave in a certain way,' warns Lasica.Noam Chomsky, linguist and media commentator, agrees: 'Major efforts are being made by the corporate owners and advertisers to shape the internet so that it will be mostly used for commerce, diversion and so on. Then those who wish to use it for information, political organising and other such activities will have a harder time.'Within 10 years, there will be no distinction between software companies, phone networks, search engines, movie studios and internet service providers. There will just be Web plc. To experience it, you will have to pay.It is scarcely credible that, initially, all commerce was forbidden on the internet. Only gradually did the engineers and scientists running the hardware infrastructure of the net relax the rules. Last year, consumer trade online was worth $300bn.To be fair to capitalism, the introduction of a profit motive created a spurt of innovation and growth. When Google started, it promised in its charter to 'do no evil'. It wanted to organise the world's information and it was good at it. So the web made sure everyone knew about this wonderful innovation. Google has never had to advertise.But now, there is a growing feeling in the blogosphere that Google (worth around $50bn) has crossed the line. The power that it has over the way people search the web, and the data the company can amass about every individual user, is starting to look less like a project to organise the world's information and more like a bid to own it. The geeks have fallen out of love. Google, they say, has turned evil.Not that that makes any difference. The web has been haranguing and maligning Microsoft as the embodiment of evil for years, because of the way it won't share anything - its codes, its platforms, its secrets. But around 95 per cent of the world's computers still run MS software. Bill Gates is still the richest man in the world.And that is the problem for the current generation of web citizens. They are neither the aristocrats, nor the foot soldiers of the net. They are simply its conscience and they will scream and shout as the web is carved up and sold off. Jamie McCoy has few illusions about the current era of great web equality: 'As soon as someone finds a way to really make a lot of money out of blogging, that will kill it,' he says.Not everyone is pessimistic. In fact, a lot of long-term web users are utopian about the future. All the hyperbole that was first draped around the web has proved inadequate. In the way it transforms and accelerates the communication of ideas between individuals and societies, it is about as big as the invention of the alphabet. And it is free. But for how long? The machinery of government and big business is only just beginning to understand the scale of the web. The culture of common purpose that prevails today is a product of neglect as much as design. The real gold rush has barely begun. To experience the sharing culture of the blogosphere today is like living in a commune built on an oil field. One day, the diggers will move in.Ours is the last generation that will remember the analogue world and feel the difference between the two realms. For the next generation of digital natives, the web will be a slick, commercial machine. It will be just as big as the world we currently live in and it will be just as ruthless and as corrupt.I hope I am wrong. I listen to today's web gurus, the people who preach freedom, and am fired with enthusiasm for the new digital society of the future. But I fear the odds are against them. An excess of idealism only seems to prove that the golden age of the web is, in fact, right now.
Total OverdosePC, PS2, XBOXWhat do you get if you cross the Robert Rodriguez El Mariachi trilogy with video games? If you've ever pondered this eternal verity, the answer you seek is in shops now. Total Overdose is a Mexican fiesta of cartoon carnage on an undreamt-of scale. Throwing you into a joyous playpen of destruction that sees you jumping out of cars a moment before impact, cartwheeling off walls while performing headshots and taking slow-motion jumping dives as you pump a variety of ordnance into all who oppose you. The more spectacular the kill, the more points you earn in this B-movie rollercoaster of chaos and gringos with guns. Cheap, throwaway, sombrero-wearing annihilation for those who found Grand Theft Auto a bit quiet.&#183;Eidos, &pound;30-&pound;40Midnight Club 3: DUB EditionPSPLooking, playing and sounding near-identical to the PS2 version of Midnight Club 3: DUB Edition, the PSP conversion is replete with all the same hip-hop grooves, neon-lit night time cityscapes and protracted brand-heavy car-pimping as its big brother. Its driving is also highly competent in a slightly bland, handling-free kind of way, and customising your car is as addictive as ever. It's not improved by its transition to a portable format, however: where once the darkened streets looked sparkly, now they're practically invisible on a sunny day, making some courses an ordeal of unseen brick walls and road markings that look like traffic. It also suffers from load times that would test the patience of a Buddhist monk.&#183;Rockstar, &pound;30Hulk: Ultimate DestructionGamecube, PS2, XBoxAfter the insipid game released alongside Hulk the movie, Ultimate Destruction arrives unfettered by film licence and with fists aimed firmly at smashing everything in sight. Running up buildings, bouncing between skyscrapers and gaily tossing buses at army helicopters, Hulk's unexpected nimbleness is offset by his apparent enormous weight, which crushes cars and creates rippling craters wherever you land. The result is an immensely satisfying trail of devastation as you bound through cities laying waste to vehicles and outbuildings, with Hulk shouldering past in his traditional tattered denim shorts. A bizarre marriage of Spider-Man and Godzilla that, although a touch short-lived in entertainment value, works.&#183;Vivendi, &pound;30-&pound;40
A year ago the total number of music downloads purchased in the UK was 500,000; today that number is sold every week. The download wars entered a new level last week with high street monsters HMV (www.hmv.co.uk/digital) and Virgin (virgindigital.com) both entering the market with million plus catalogues, feature-packed jukeboxes, easy to use systems and the same price scales (79p per track and premium subscription at &pound;14.99 a month).Elsewhere,www.karmadownload.com, which caters to the underground music scene, has relaunched with radio channels and the ability to pay for tracks on your phone bill. Despite all the hoopla of the launches, the biggest download story of the week is Help: A Day In The Life (warchildmusic.com), a digital charity album featuring the likes of Bloc Party, Keane and Damien Rice who all recorded new tracks on the same day last week.
Thisslideshowhas no gadgets, but you could take it as a great illustration of the power of citizen journalism. Either way,you should watch it....
John Gruber's Daring Fireball blog retells the much-debatediTunes 5 user interface storyin very amusing movie-style dialogue. [Warning: contains numerous obscenities.] Here's a taster:Brushed Metal: I'm the bad-ass theme. I'm the one who flouts the Human Interface Guidelines.Mike: This guy trashes the HIG the way Johnny Depp trashes a hotel room. He even sports a custom radius on his window corners. No other window on the system has a shape like this. It's wild. Just wait until the HIG zealots get a load of this guy.Brushed Metal: I told you something was fucked up when the new version of Mail didn't go with me.Mike: You've got a nice long-term deal with the FinderBrushed Metal: That two-timing piece of crap?
"Visit Bill in his officefor a few minutes to talk about where he sees the future going. This is a fun interview, prepares you for the PDC that's coming next week. It's going to be a fun next week, make sure to come back on Tuesday when we'll have tons of videos from teams showing off their secret stuff for the first time. Next Tuesday morning not only will his keynote at the Professional Developer Conference be broadcast live (it'll be on Bill's webcasts page on Tuesday), but we'll have a bunch of videos all week long."Microsoft geek blogger Robert Scoble has videoed his boss and, separately, Microsoft's first employee,Marc McDonald.
MondayCongratulations Greg!"Northerners love PSP the most," says CometAmerica embraces NintendogsTuesdayToo many conferencesPSP batters UK launch recordsWednesdayGaming for goodThursdayWhen developers pull the plugLumines and Meteos go even more mobileYou'd never guess...Gadget worryFridayWe love the Katamari websiteNo fun at allSonic Friday!
"Mobile phone users or iPod addicts could soon be spared the hassle of having to recharge batteries by a backpack that converts energy from walking into electricity," reportsCNN."Scientists at the University of Pennsylvania devised the technology after being asked by the U.S. military to come up with a light rechargeable battery that could be used by troops one the battlefield."CNN has a photo of Professor Larry Rome, who led the research, wearing the power-generating backpack. So how does it work?The backpack consists of bag suspended from a fixed frame by vertical springs. As the bag is moved up and down by the wearer's walking motion it creates enough mechanical energy to drive a generator mounted on the frame.Meanwhile theGlobe &amp; Mailadds:Dr Rome said the prototype weighs 10 to 15 pounds, but his team hopes to bring the weight down to about six or seven pounds, slightly heavier than a normal large backpack.
Sega has announced two new Sonic the Hedgehog games... Hang on, just give me a minute to calm down... Right, the first is the casually titled Sonic the Hedgehog for PS3 and Xbox 360. According to the company's press release:"Sonic The Hedgehog for PLAYSTATION3 and Xbox 360 will be developed under the direction of Yuji Naka, award-winning developer known for creating the hugely successful SEGA franchise. With an innovative combination of art, physics and game design, SEGA and Mr. Naka expect to create the most intense sensation of speed ever experienced in videogames. Sonic The Hedgehog for next-gen is expected to ship on multiple platforms in conjunction with the character's 15th anniversary in 2006."Naka-san goes onto explain that:"we have gone back to our starting point, more than 15-years ago, to reinvent the attitude and speed that made our hero a legend. The 'rebirth of Sonic' will offer an unparalleled sense of speed that is only possible using the processing power afforded by the new systems."And there's more!Sega has also announced Sonic Riders for PS2 and Xbox. Developed by Soni Team, its a - yes - racing game, where you select one of your favourite Sonic characters and then take part in, we expect, really,reallyfast races. Over to Sega again:"In Sonic Riders, Dr. Eggman challenges Sonic and his friends to a Worldwide Grand Prix, and the prize for coming out on top is an ultra-rare Chaos Emerald! Gliding on air boards  which are performance-oriented for each playable character  gamers will experience a heightened sense of Extreme sports-style racing tension as Sonic and his pals perform tricks and stunts over treacherous wide-open terrain."But will it be as good as Sonic R? We'll see when it hits the shelves this Winter. Oh yes and there's a robot battle game named Chromehounds on the way too.
Continuing theKatamari love-in, Keita Takahashi, master creator ofKatamari Damacyand its forthcoming sequel We LOVE Katamari (hooray - we get aEuropean release!), made a few waves when he gave his keynote speech at last week'sGDC-Europe. Beyond his strange proposal for a game which Grandma would like (think cats, think peripherals, now put the two together), he announced that he's not much of a game player, "Because there are no fun ones."Silence.From Kieron Gillen's coverage forGamasutra:He knows games are interesting but life is interesting. From feeling the rush of air in your face while riding a bike, to the joy of skipping or the heart-beating in your chest when you stop. These may not be particularly punk rock, but they all stimulate, and all make life worth living."You don't need games to have fun," he considers, "possibly you don't need games at all."
Namco has launched abizarre new websitefor the forthcoming collect-'em-up, We Love Katamari. If you're at work you may want to turn the sound down a bit. Here's what Namco themselves have to say about it all:"The official "We Love Katamari" Web site will give fans a sneak peek at the upcoming game by offering new screens, a trailer and updated information. Visitors can download wallpapers (including a selection of U.S. exclusives) as well as a desktop buddy  the loveable, pint-sized Prince  who will roll a katamari around a computer screen. As the game's launch approaches, the site will offer special items for the Prince to wear and guest desktop buddy skins of the Prince's cousins."Fans will be able to submit pictures of their favorite katamari-themed creations  including costumes, artwork, etc.  for all site visitors to see and enjoy. On a regular basis, the images will be judged by the franchise's creator, Keita Takahashi, and prizes will be awarded to these selected fans. The King of All Cosmos himself will even provide commentary on some of the submissions  but fans beware: even though his words are filled with love, he can be a demanding monarch!"Katamari meets Take Hart! Now tell me that hasn't made your Friday...
Mobile phone and internet companies yesterday warned EU ministers that counter-terrorism plans for the compulsory storage of billions of phone and internet records would prove expensive and intrusive, with far-reaching implications for every citizen.Industry experts also claimed that the demands for extra data to be stored on the location of mobile phone callers breached existing European privacy laws. The data will have to be stored for a minimum of 12 months and will be accessible to police and security services investigating terrorism and serious crime.The home secretary, Charles Clarke, who is chairing a two-day meeting of the EU justice and home affairs council in Newcastle-upon-Tyne, is battling to win the backing of all 25 EU states for the controversial plan.Mr Clarke acknowledged the issue was "politically tricky". He confirmed that he had not secured their agreement yesterday but still hopes to get it approved by the end of the year. A new European data protection regime is to be finalised within the next few weeks to provide data access safeguards in an attempt to reassure sceptical EU   ministers. He also issued a thinly veiled warning to European human rights judges that if they failed to make rulings which reflected the consensus of European public opinion in terrorist cases they would fuel the case of those calling for Britain's withdrawal from the European convention on human rights.The home secretary said that British embassies around the world had drawn up a list "50 to 100 names" of militant Islamists who would not be welcome if they tried to come to Britain.The EU-wide plan for the compulsory storage of telephone and internet data means that the industry would have to store records that not only tracked which numbers were dialled, the time and duration of calls, but also the location of the caller from a mobile throughout and at the end of the call. They would also have to record the location of the phone being called. Internet companies would have to preserve records of when users logged on and off their networks but not track the websites that had been visited.While some of this data is already held for up to six months by the companies for billing purposes the industry says that the demand for the details of location of phone calls breaks new ground."We retain data for legitimate business reasons for three to six months but we believe the rationale for change and making far more intrusive measures remains unproved," said Michael Bartholomew of the European Telecommunications Network Operators's Association.He said the demand for location data breached existing European data protection laws. He also protested about the demand for data about unsuccessful calls to be collected, claiming it would mean a typical mobile phone operator having to reconfigure 1,600 switches at a cost of &euro;160m (&#163;108m). "We think this is a rather unsophisticated approach to a complex problem. Our plea to the ministers is to have more dialogue with the industry."But the Home Office believes that the industry is overestimating the potential costs involved. Ministers have already set aside a budget of &#163;6m a year to cover the costs of setting up the system and retrieving data in Britain.One leading mobile company has already signed a contract with the Home Office agreeing to store data for up to 12 months, instead of its current practice of two days, at a cost of &#163;875,000 a year.Police and law enforcement agencies are currently charged &#163;20 each time they ask for this data. The police say that in one two-week period they made 2,000 such requests to help them with investigations, 15% of which were for records dating back more than six months.The Home Office says data on unsuccessful calls is necessary because they have been used by terrorists in the past to detonate bombs, and provides essential information about suspects' location at specific times.
"Google has hired Internet pioneer Vinton Cerf to float more ideas and develop new products, adding another weapon to the online search engine leader's rapidly growing arsenal of intellect," reportsAP."Cerf will remain chairman of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, the oversight agency for Internet domain names. He also will continue as a visiting scientist at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, where he has been focusing on a very Google-like project  trying to figure out a way to connect the Internet to outer space."Comment:Vint's site,Cerf's Up, is always worth a read. (Presumably it will move from his previous employer, MCI.)I did a big interview with Cerf for Online,here, published on November 9, 2000. He's a hero.
I showed the new iPod nano off to various people around the office this afternoon, to gauge their first thoughts and reactions:Roger, the paper's deputy art director, couldn't wait to have a look. "It's very attractive, just like a piece of jewellery, really. It's much more like a piece of jewellery than other iPods... that makes it more and more desirable. I just hope it lasts longer than my iPod mini, which was crap."Danielle, Online's administrator for the week and our demonstration model (above), was impressed, but worried about getting the unit grimy. "It sounds just as good," she said. "It would do my head in, though: I'd be constantly cleaning it."Neil, the assistant editor of Guardian Unlimited - and a man whose immaculately manicured hands can be seen above - is already thinking of splashing out. "Don't tell me wife, but I'm going to buy one," he whispered. "Maybe two." Sorry, mate, but the secret's out.Hadley, who's the Guardian's deputy fashion editor, offered a considered fashionista's view. "It's so cool: I can fit it in a cigarette packet! It's smaller than a pack of 10."A straw poll of feedback from around the office basically distilled down into: "Wow, that's small. But will I break it?".
The internet portal Yahoo! provided crucial information that helped Chinese authorities imprison an outspoken local journalist, a media watchdog said yesterday.The company gave Chinese investigators information that helped them trace a personal Yahoo! email belonging to the jailed reporter Shi Tao, said the group Reporters Without Borders.Shi, a reporter for the financial publication Contemporary Business News, was jailed for 10 years in April after being found guilty of illegally providing state secrets to foreigners.The email for which he was jailed had notes on a government circular that spelled out restrictions on the media.Reporters Without Borders described Shi as a "good journalist who has paid dearly for trying to get the news out".The group added: "Does the fact that &#91;Yahoo!&#93; operates under Chinese law free it from all ethical considerations? How far will it go to please Beijing?"The criticism marks the latest instance in which a prominent hi-tech firm has been accused of cooperating with Chinese authorities to gain favour. Google and MSN have been criticised for censoring online news sites and blogs with content that China wanted to suppress.
"One of the earliest and perhaps clearest alarms about Hurricane Katrina's potential threat to New Orleans was sounded not by the Weather Channel or a government agency but by a self-described weather nerd sitting on a couch in Indiana with a laptop computer and a remote control," reportsThe New York Times's tech blog."At the risk of being alarmist, we could be 3-4 days away from an unprecedented cataclysm that could kill as many as 100,000 people in New Orleans," Brendan Loy, who is 23 and has no formal meteorological training, wrote on Aug. 26 in his blog,irishtrojan.com. "If I were in New Orleans, I would seriously consider getting the hell out of Dodge right now, just in case."Comment:The NYT piece has a correction that might amuse our own readers' editor. It says:An article in Business Day about Brendon Loy, the Notre Dame student who was one of the earliest to sound the alarm about the potential threat to New Orleans from Hurricane Katrina, misstated the name of Mr Loy's dog. It is Robbie, not Becky (which is his fiance's name).Not-so-amusing footnote:Loy's blog account has been suspended, and the page currently puts up a notice that says: "Please contact the billing/support department as soon as possible."
"The LexisNexis data collection service has introduced CopyGuard, a program aimed at exposing plagiarists or spotting copyright infringement. According to John Barrie, chief executive of iParadigms, the company that developed the program with LexisNexis, CopyGuard can generate a report that calculates the percentage of material suspected of not being original, highlights that text and pinpoints its possible original source, all within seconds," reportsThe New York Times."Existing programs from iParadigm and others have focused on plagiarism by students, not journalists. CopyGuard, which is available by subscription (the company would not divulge the price of the service) draws on LexisNexis's database of more than six billion documents and several years' worth of Web pages archived by iParadigm. In addition to checking newspaper and magazine articles, CopyGuard can be used by publishers to scan book manuscripts."
ITV is to join forces with the BBC to launch a free digital satellite television service in a direct challenge to the Rupert Murdoch-controlled BSkyB.Freesat will be aimed at some 7m households in the UK - 25% of the total - which are currently unable to receive digital television channels through Freeview, the BBC-backed digital terrestrial TV service. The launch, expected in the first half of next year, follows the rapid growth of Freeview in the UK, which is now in more than 5m households.Charles Allen, ITV's chief executive, said: "Many people want Freeview but are unable to get it and don't want to join a pay-TV service for various reasons."Following the launch, consumers will be able to buy a satellite box from high street retailers in the same way they do Freeview, although the price is expected to be far higher than the average &pound;50 cost of a Freeview box because installation will be more difficult. Sky's own version, launched last October, offers about 120 TV stations for a one-off charge of &pound;150.Most of the consumers unable to receive Freeview live in rural areas, where cable TV penetration is also low. For many, the only choice for a non-subscription digital TV service is Sky's version, which has received little marketing attention from the dominant pay-TV provider.Freesat, a name that has been trademarked by the BBC, will offer all the digital channels offered by both public service broadcasters, including BBC3, BBC4, ITV2, ITV3, the soon-to-be-launched ITV4 and children's channels CBeebies and CBBC. Channel 4 said it would "watch how Freesat develops with interest" but that it had "no present plans" to review its current agreement with Sky, which runs until 2008.However, most broadcast analysts expect the two other terrestrial channels - C4 and Five - to follow ITV's lead and join the new freesat service once it is fully operational. The impetus to join a non-paying service comes partly from government plans to turn off the analogue signal for television and switch over to digital by 2012. Some areas of the country will start to be switched off in 2008.Both ITV and the BBC have said that the provision of a new free-to-air service was essential if all homes were to have access to the television following switchover. Mr Allen said: "As we move from an analogue to a digital environment, Freesat - and Freeview - will enable every family in the UK to enjoy a wide range of quality channels for free."Mark Thompson, director general of the BBC, said: "Our long-stated aim has been to bring about an open market in subscription-free satellite services so we can ensure free access to all the BBC's services across the country in the run-up to switchover and beyond".He welcomed ITV's decision to become "partners in the project to develop a consumer friendly, subscription-free satellite proposition".Sky indicated yesterday that the launch could help lower barriers to entry for all satellite services, including pay. "Freesat services already form part of Sky's strategy for continued pay-TV growth. As analogue switch-off approaches, we welcome increased promotion of satellite reception by ITV and the BBC."Yesterday's announcement comes after a breakdown in negotiations between ITV and Sky over how much the commercial broadcaster should pay Sky to encrypt its programmes. This ensures the correct regional programmes are shown - important for viewers and advertisers alike - and means that some sports programmes such as football's Champions League cannot be seen outside ITV's area. This is important for European broadcasters, who do not want their paying customers seeing a free version of the same game on ITV.Yesterday's announcement was welcomed by Jocelyn Hay, chairman of the Voice of the Listener and Viewer, a consumer body. She has urged media regulator Ofcom and the government to facilitate an independent free-to-air digital satellite service to guarantee the success of digital switchover, as "many viewers were reluctant" to sign up to Sky's services, she said.
Whatever anybody said yesterday, ITV's decision to join up with the BBC to launch Freesat was a hostile act against the dominant satellite service, BSkyB.It may not have much money behind it and may not even have much on it, but the new service to be launched in the first half of next year will be the first satellite rival to the Osterley-based group since the demise of BSB.That the owner of the now-defunct ITV Digital should be the company to embark on such a thing, in cahoots with the state-owned broadcaster, should surprise nobody. Yet it has perhaps more unusually involved ITV failing to win over the regulator and deciding to possibly irritate men such as Bernie Ecclestone.How did we get here? Yesterday's decision has been threatened many times by ITV during the long-running negotiations with BSkyB over the cost of encrypting its programmes. ITV felt that the &pound;17m a year it was paying to show its regional channels in the right areas and in the same slot on Sky's electronic programme guide was too much, even if it ensured that its rights-holders were happy. Rights-holders such as Mr Ecclestone, who owns the rights to televise formula one, do not typically like channels which go "in the clear" as there is a greater risk of viewers in other areas - northern France, say - being able to watch their programmes.Nor do European broadcasters, who pay dearly to show Champions League football matches, for that matter.ITV turned to the media regulator, Ofcom, to help it settle this multimillion-pound dispute with BSkyB - to no avail. So it decided to take on the rights-holders and to put its channels on the BBC-backed Freesat service instead.Charles Allen, ITV's chief executive, said yesterday that he was in talks with all the rights-holders involved and "in some cases &#91;they&#93; were completed".Mr Allen's decision goes some way to answering those who have accused him of having an entirely short-term focus on cost-cutting and licence negotiations.Of course, he never would have hitched his horse to a BBC venture if Freeview had not proved such a success in the last two years. If a "dumb box" with a limited capacity for channels can take on BSkyB then why not a similar service for the 7m homes that can't receive Freeview?Analysts expect the market for subscription-free satellite digital TV to add up to about two million by 2010. These viewers are important for ITV, struggling as it is to maintain any market share in an increasingly competitive market. But they are also important for BSkyB, which has committed itself to increasing its almost eight million-strong subscriber base by two million before 2010.BSkyB of course has its own "freesat" offering, launched last October after the BBC spoke of its own plans. It keeps the number of people using this service a closely guarded secret, but a lack of the usual marketing blitz has meant it is not enormous.For why should Sky advertise a service that might tempt its subscribers to stop paying for the full complement of programmes?The company has a point when it says that the more satellite dishes there are in the UK, the better. Occasional viewers can then become the "crack cocaine" Sky addicts of the company's growth plans.But if it really thinks so, why doesn't it start really giving away its boxes? Forget the &pound;150. Now that really would be freesat.
Now that Apple has announced itsnew iTunes phone and teeny tiny iPod Nano(&lt;&lt;i&gt;Adopt Monty Python French accent&gt;"but sir, it's wafer thin"), gadget show-offs around the country are facing a conundrum of considerable proportions. With PSP, DS, Sony's Walkman phone, Gizmondo and Game Boy Micro also out there or on the way, exactlywhichdesirable piece of kit should we be nonchalantly, but oh so deliberately, slapping down on the pub table when meeting friends?*Does the universally understood cool of the iPod brand win out? Or is it the all-round entertainment possibilities of the PSP? Or the loveable charm of the DS? Or could it be... could it really be the offbeat, apparently hopeless Gizmondo - theNorthern Irelandof portable technology?What will your choice say about you? Especially if you accidentally set it down in a big puddle of Fosters...*Please do not pretend you don't do this.
...that one of the producers on Burnout Revenge was a woman.'Course, she has nothing to do with the marketing campaign. She did say in last weekend'sFT(expensiveregistration required) that the game is a hit amongst ladies, yet the publicity folks didn't seem to make any amends.And as the eloquent women atThumb Banditspoint out, this is a racing game, not a lap dancing one.
I have an old Windows 95 PC that I'd like to junk, but it has a lot of data I need to hive off. Copying it to floppies would take a very long time. M RichYou should not have any data to hive off: it should all be backed up! However, I appreciate this is harder for Windows 95 users whose PCs pre-date external CD writers that can simply be plugged in to a USB or FireWire port, and lack the ports in which to plug them. If you have broadband, you could zip all the files into one or two smaller files and upload them to a website such as Rapidshare.de, then download them to your new PC. Rapdishare handles files up to 50MB. (Use WinRAR, password-protect the files, and remember to keep the link that enables you to delete the files later.)If you don't have broadband or have too much data to upload, your best bet is probably to transfer the files via a serial or parallel cable. It can take a long time but usually you can leave it running overnight. I've used Traveling Software's LapLink for Windows to do the job. It's not the cheapest method, but the packaged version comes with suitable cables - as long as your new PC is not USB-only - and it works. Alternatives I have not tried includeFastLynx,PowercopyandFileVan.There are also packages that will attempt to transfer both your data and your settings, such asEasy PC Transfer, Alohabob'sPC Relocatorand SpearIt'sMove Me. However, I suspect you'd be better off using LapLink or FastLynx and Microsoft's Files and Settings Transfer Wizard. Microsoft provides a step-by-step guide to making the migration athttp://www.microsoft.com/technet/prodtechnol/winxppro/deploy/mgrtfset.mspxUpdate:Many readers have suggested moving the hard drive to the new PC, or putting it in a USB accessory drive. More later....
I get very annoyed when websites will not permit you to use the Back button (close down being the only alternative) or have other annoying features. Is there a way of quarantining such sites so that your browser will not go there again? John BoothbyWhen your browser is going to a website, the first thing it does is look for a hosts file on your PC. You can use this file to tell the browser that the site is on your PC at the local address 127.0.0.1 (known as loopback), not on the web. To block a site such as www.xxxx.com, search your hard drive to find the hosts file, and load it in Notepad or another plain text editor. Now enter a separate line as follows:127.0.0.1 www.xxxx.comIn future, the browser will look in the wrong place for the site (ie on your hard drive) and report it as Not Found. This technique is commonly used to block unwanted advertising sites, and you can download prepopulated hosts files (seehttp://www.mvps.org/winhelp2002/hosts.htm). Also, note that some malware tampers with your hosts file, so that when you try to go to Google, for example, the browser is redirected to www.xxxx.com or worse.Incidentally, if the Back button is disabled, you should be able to click the small down-arrow next to the button and go back to any of the sites on the drop-down list.
I have accumulated several thousand MP3 files and would like to weed out just the duplicates. Is there a (preferably free) piece of software that doesn't need to play/burn etc but will search all attached drives &amp; then list the dupes? Andy WhitehouseThere are lots of programs that will find duplicate files by making byte-for-byte comparisons rather than just looking at the filenames. Unfortunately I can't find a good free one. Commercial or shareware examples includeExamDiff Pro,Duplicate File Detective, andNoClone Home Edition, with the cheapest at $15 beingSpaceman 99. Searching Download.com will turn up a few more,here. Most offer at least a free trial.
The Wall Street Journal's Walter Mossberg reportshere[no sub req'd] on his pre-launch Apple Nano:Overall, in my tests, the iPod nano performed as advertised, or better. I found no significant flaws or downsides. The only quirks are that the headphone jack is on the bottom, because there isn't room for it on the top; and to make room for the jack, the standard iPod connector port that hooks up to many accessories has been placed off-center. But neither of these oddities matters much. In fact, the bottom-mounted headphone jack makes the optional lanyard earbuds possible, and keeps the screen oriented properly when you're wearing them.Despite its small size, the nano sounded as good as any other iPod, and is packed with plenty of audio power. Plugged into my car speakers, it was able to belt out the new Fountains of Wayne rocker, "Maureen," loudly enough to be heard perfectly, even though I was going 70 mph in a convertible with the top down.
"EBay Inc is in talks to acquire Internet-telephony company Skype Technologies SA for $2 billion to $3 billion, according to people familiar with the matter, in a deal that would represent a dramatic shift in strategy for the world's largest online auction site," reportsThe Wall Street Journal[paid subscription required].The Journal says talks "could fall apart," and that Skype "has been in active discussions with other technology companies, and none has led to a deal". However, it adds:While other online leaders such as Yahoo Inc. and Google Inc. have pushed the boundaries of their offerings, eBay has stuck more directly to the business of acting as middleman between individual buyers and sellers. But the person familiar with the situation said that eBay is keen on adding services that make it easier for its customers to buy and sell goods online, as it did when it acquired the electronic-payment processing service PayPal in 2002.Comment:eBay hasn't folllowed Google, Yahoo and even Amazon (with its A9 search engine) in expanding into new areas, but it's not clear that buying Skype would do that either. After all, eBay has not made PayPal into a web-dominating online payment system, and nowadays it seems to be used mainly on eBay. Would Skype go the same way? If so, it doesn't represent "represent a dramatic shift in strategy," just more of the same.Related:We interviewed Niklas Zennstrom, the co-founder of Skype, in July.Here's what he had to say.
In the spotlight: Google. Illustration: Emma DoddThis Thursday marks the last edition of Online as we know it. As the Guardian relaunches next week, we'll be bringing you bigger, better and more extensive technology coverage. But don't miss out on the what we've got in store this week...In our leading comment Online's editor, Victor Keegan, explainswhat's changedin the 11 years since the Guardian launched Online, and wonders where it will all end up.Elsewhere, we're wondering about the future of Google. We put the questions to a series of technology insiders and Google watchers - including Jeff Jarvis, Opera's Jon von Tetzchner and digital activist Cory Doctorow - to see what they thought.And there's much more.Click herefor complete contents.
It is already the biggest name in the growing world of digital music, but last night Apple revealed its blueprint for further domination by unveiling a new model iPod and a music-playing mobile phone.As the latest additions to the company's range of wildly popular iPod digital music players, Apple's boss, Steve Jobs, announced the iPod Nano and a mobile phone handset called Rokr. The Nano, a super-slim music player which can hold up to 1,000 songs, will be available by this weekend."It's impossibly small," said Mr Jobs.The Nano resembles the iPod Shuffle, the small player released earlier this year, but has a screen, weighs just 42g and comes in two different capacities.The long-awaited Rokr E1 handset, also dubbed the "iPhone", will be launched in the UK next week. But the model, produced in conjunction with the world's second largest mobile manufacturer, Motorola, has underwhelmed some, with the capacity to carry just 100 songs.The Rokr is far from being the first mobile phone with the ability to play music, but Apple and Motorola will be hoping to cash in on the success of iPod, which is expected to sell 25m units worldwide this year alone. With its striking design and ubiquitous white earphones, iPod has become of the equivalent of Sony's Walkman for the digital age.But Apple has one eye on the much larger mobile market. Looking and behaving like an ordinary phone, the Rokr carries a button which allows users to launch the iPod interface to play stored songs. And it will be compatible with Apple's popular iTunes music software, allowing them to transfer music from their computer, or tracks bought from Apple's music download service.Critics of the iPhone say it has simply been too long in coming, and no longer offers anything fresh. News of the link-up between Apple and Motorola emerged as long ago as last summer, and rivals have been quick to release products in the meantime.Music-playing phones from the likes of Sony Ericsson have already proved popular, and Nokia's impending N91 - which is said to have a capacity around eight times bigger than that of the Rokr - could make the going even tougher for the little white icon."This device will probably be very popular," said Michael Bull, a lecturer at the University of Sussex. "But if you're going to combine two things like an iPod and a mobile phone, it's really got to do something more than this phone's going to do. Until you can construct a seamless experience, it will always be a mobile with a musical toy attached."The device will not go on sale in Apple's shops in the UK, and for the first two weeks it will only be available on the O2 network, and through the high street retailer The Carphone Warehouse.It is certainly true that Britain's appetite for music downloads is rapidly increasing. Most mobile network operators already offer customers the chance to buy music over their phones, and sales of digital tracks are now incorporated in the official music charts. Apple already has a dominant position in the market, with its iTunes Music Store claiming an 80% share of all Britain's digital music purchases. The iPhone is seen as a way of securing that superiority, as well as fending off challenges from competitors such as HMV, Virgin and Sony."By the end of the year, there should be around 40 to 50 million music-enabled mobile phones in western Europe," said Jerome Buvat, a consultant at CapGemini."By launching this phone, Apple expects to increase its download music revenues as users of Rokr can only buy songs from iTunes."
If there's one company that gets people talking technology, it's Google. Many love it, and a handful hate it - but more often than not, we are interested in it. Not only does Google organise our information, but it shapes the way we think about the web. Indeed for many, it is the telescope through which they see the world.A decade ago, when Stanford students Larry Page and Sergey Brin began working on search technology, it is unlikely they were thinking about becoming one of the biggest brands in the world. The company's famous slogan - "Don't be evil" - was a Silicon Valley engineer's mind writ large: build it good, built it fast, build it clean. That mantra was given form in clear, concise solutions that did what they promised quickly and simply.Things are different now, though. The little search engine that could is a multibillion dollar corporation - and, almost inevitably, it is getting the bad press that goes along with the position. The launch of two new Google products last month produced an outbreak of chin scratching. Is Google too big to love any more? Can it take on the dominance of Microsoft? What effect is it having on our right to privacy?Certainly there are questions to be asked. While Google's supporters point to how useful its web applications are, some wonder whether market dominance is desirable. For every fan who points to "don't be evil", there are critics who worry about the firm's cooperation with a censorious and politically repressive Chinese government.Google's problem is, ultimately, a product of the success it has enjoyed. Just a few years after it entered the world, Google is so ubiquitous that it is beginning the transition from well-loved innovator to bastion of corporate America. On this trajectory, it might not be long before it achieves a status comparable to McDonald's, Wal-Mart and, of course, Microsoft.And there's the crux of our relationship with Google. For the health of home computing, many want a challenge to Microsoft's command - and many think Google could do it. By using the web browser as the central application on your computer, not the operating system, they might weaken the vice-like grip that Microsoft has carefully constructed. But it takes power to prise open Bill Gates' fingers, and perhaps it is only by becoming a corporate monolith that Google can challenge Microsoft's might. And does that mean we might simply trade in one faceless giant for another?Google's supporters say there is a long-standing tradition that when something successful is built up, it is swiftly knocked down. Is that true? To find out, we asked a selection of technology industry insiders - fans, rivals and impartial observers - what they thought about Google's past, present and future.Jon von Tetzchner, founder of web browser firm Opera'I like their products; I use the Google search engine as my default and it is the default on Opera. More than 70% of our users said they wanted it that way. It does not mean the others are bad, but try to remember what the market was like before Google."They have some interesting things coming in the future, but it is really still early days for them."They are competing with Microsoft and not competing with them at the same time: they're not making office suites and the like, but they are taking on some of the MSN web services. We are fighting Microsoft, too, so we don't mind someone helping us out."Jeff Jarvis, media commentator and consultant'As a company, Google has done wonderful things: It has re-architected knowledge with its search; it has taken the cooties off citizens' media with its ads on blogs. But as they gain power, they lose trust. Google's insistence that it would do no evil is only its surest sign of arrogance. The company grew too big - and especially in this age of small, we distrust big."The search engine prides itself on uncovering information anywhere in the world, yet the company is not transparent about its share of publishers' ad revenue or its Google News sources. Google depends on our links and clicks to inform its search, yet the company seems allergic to people; it trusts only its secret algorithms. In short: Google makes Microsoft look human."Craig Newmark, founder of community advertising siteCraigslist.org'Google is primarily a technology company - it innovates and supports its products. Microsoft is primarily a marketing company, and regarding support and innovation, not so much."Also, the Google guys sincerely believe in their 'do no evil' philosophy. So far, they seem to do a good job protecting the privacy of their users' information."Richard Cox, senior investigator for anti-spam campaigners Spamhaus'It seems to us that they're putting profit before security. But it is not just Google - anyone who gets to that size tends to forget how easily it can be for people to abuse their services.One of the biggest problems is that it anonymises. Gmail lets you sign up anonymously, and lets you mail anonymously, too. Usually, if anybody needs to find out where an email came from, they can find out - Yahoo and Hotmail show you. But Gmail just kills that. I don't think it was a conscious decision, I just don't think they thought about it properly. And even if you do have a problem, there's no mechanism to talk to them."James Cridland, head of new media, Virgin Radio'Everything that Google does, I use. Every computer at Virgin Radio has the Google toolbar pre-installed. My personal email goes into a Gmail account; Google Talk is a useful business tool for the new media team at Virgin Radio (just don't tell IT); and if Google made drinks, we'd get happily drunk on GoogleJuice. Every night.Their biggest weakness is probably a strength - they launch things without really knowing what will happen or thinking it through. Google could easily put Microsoft, Dell and AOL out of business if they wanted. Stripped-down laptops, running a Linux-based Google OS with a GoogleBrowser, using Google servers as a remote hard drive, connecting to GoogleWi-Fi available in every town - dreamy."Cory Doctorow, science fiction author, digital activist and co-editor ofBoingBoing.net'Their technical insights still remain among the best in the field. Early search engines were based on ranking pages using artificial intelligence: Google decided to use people's intelligence, and it continues to have insights that are almost as good as that. It managed to capitalise on an advertising market that nobody thought existed."They have done some things I think are questionable: the screening of information from Chinese dissidents, for example, is reprehensible."The great limit on Google's growth is going to be competition. If its ability to order information could be applied to other areas, then I'd be a very happy man."Jason Kottke, professional blogger and Google watcher'Google is at an interesting point. They're publicly making the transition from a medium-sized company to a large company. As such, they are acting very much like a kid would act in the transition to adulthood; they want to be good, they want to do things their way, they have unapologetically done some inappropriate things, and due to their quick growth, have had to make some hard decisions they were unprepared to make or have avoided making other decisions altogether."In some ways, I think the company is conscious of this process and is trying to retain as best they can those youthful qualities that have guided them in the past. The question is, will their customers, shareholders, and the media let them? Those groups tend to frown upon big companies taking risks, being willing to make mistakes, and doing things their own way."What Google is attempting is audacious, and I would rather see the attempt and subsequent failure than see them becoming just another boring middle-aged American company."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
The slow recovery of Vodafone's embattled Japanese operation continued last month with the mobile phone operator registering its third straight month of customer additions in August.But the 3,600 new subscribers the firm reported last month is down on the 18,000 it acquired in July and less than the 5,300 it added in June. Vodafone Japan has just under 15 million customers.Vodafone Japan had been losing more customers than it gained for six straight months before the turnaround this summer but as Christian Maher, analyst at Investec Securities, noted yesterday "the overall performance of the territory still leaves lots of room for improvement".Vodafone Japan has lost out to bitter rivals NTT DoCoMo and KDDI because of its relatively late launch of new 3G services and, more importantly, its inability to get hold of new handsets attractive enough for fashion-conscious Japanese consumers.To try to deal with these issues, Vodafone parachuted UK boss Bill Morrow into the hot seat at Vodafone Japan earlier this year while industry veteran Shiro Tsuda moved into the chairman's role.The company has since predicted it will be consistently gaining more customers than it loses some time over the last six months of this year.Vodafone Japan is obviously still losing subscribers to its traditional service, but its 3G service added 160,600 customers last month - up sharply on July - taking the total to 1.6 million.Despite the pick-up over the summer months, Vodafone Japan's recovery is by no means certain. August saw little competitive activity from either KDDI or DoCoMo, but both have lined up new handsets that are due to launch this month.Vodafone will be able to bolster its position with the launch of full track music downloads this month, but analysts still fear the company could slip back into negative territory this month."Since the arrival of chief executive Bill Morrow, the improvement in Japan would appear to be coming through," Investec's Mr Maher commented yesterday. "However, it remains too early to confidently predict whether this is a trend."Vodafone is due to give investors a full update on its entire business on September 19 and its Japanese arm will again be a focus of attention.
The bitter legal battle between the European commission and Microsoft over its alleged monopoly plumbed new depths yesterday when the world's largest software group filed a new suit to protect its secret source codes.The protracted battle, which saw the commission's competition authority fine Microsoft a record &euro;497m (&pound;336m) for abuse of its dominant position as long ago as March 2004, now threatens to continue well into 2007 - or even longer.Yesterday the company said it had filed an "application for annulment" on August 10 with the court of first instance, Europe's second highest court, "specifically concerning the issue of broad licences in source code form of communications protocols which are based on Microsoft's intellectual property".Microsoft lost an initial appeal at the court last December over commission rulings that it should open up its software protocols to rivals so they can make Workgroup-Servers compatible with Windows and produce a version of Windows without its Media Player audiovisual software. The company has yet to implement these interim sanctions in full.Its latest case, which has infuriated commission officials, arises from the stand-off in early summer between Neelie Kroes, competition commissioner, and Steve Balmer, Microsoft's chief executive, over "open source" software suppliers.Ms Kroes and Philip Lowe, her director general, insist Microsoft should allow such rivals to publish or circulate these protocols within their own source codes when they are non-innovative. The US group says this would erode or even destroy its global intellectual property rights.Company insiders said the latest suit was simply the logical outcome of the "agreement to disagree" reached by Ms Kroes and Mr Balmer during May and June. They made it plain Microsoft feared this issue could be minimised or ignored in the court's deliberations over its wider appeal.Open source companies, backed by Brussels, see this as simply another legal tool to put them out of business.The fresh case could be considered separately or combined with the Microsoft appeal against the March 2004 ruling.
Yes, French mobile games publisher Gameloft has acquired the rights to produce mobile phone versions of PSP favourite,Lumines, and cult DS puzzler,Meteos, both produced by Sega legend Tetsuya Mizuguchi, now head honcho at Q Entertainment. This is a bit of a baffling new business model: taking portable games and making them a bit more portable on another platform. But I suppose it makes sense - they're both excellent titles with mainstream pick-up-and-play appeal, and, as difficult as this may be to believe, some people are never going to buy a DS or PSP. No, hang on, that can't be right...
It's been jolly good news for World of Warcraft creators Blizzard this week, who've managed to tally up over a gazillion subscribing accounts since the title's release in November/February (that's over4 million worldwideand1m in North America). Without a doubt, this virtual space is the most successfulMassively Multiplayer Online Gamein the Western market, shadowing the high player numbers previously only witnessed in online game-friendly nations like Korea and China. I'll leave it toothersto fathom the secrets of its success, and instead consider a more elemental issue.The gravitational pull of WoW has wreaked havoc on other MMOG populations, with friends reporting that worlds such as Star Wars Galaxies and previous genre-leader EverQuest are feeling rather, well, empty. More significantly, another previously successful title - Turbine's Asheron's Call 2 -went underin the same week as the US WoW market hit 1 million paying customers. By "going under" I mean that the number of players dropped tounder 20,000, still above some of the other relatively small international audiences of other commercial online games, but below the perceived viable threshold that the creators wished to maintain. Regardless of these existing players, the creators announced that they were pulling the plug.There is understandable anger. As one high-level player eloquently said on theAC2 forums,You gotta be ****ing kidding me. Thanks a lot. I've poured my heart and soul into trying to help this game, help its community, and you back out that ****ing fast? 7 ****ing months? Thanks a bunch.There's no argument that dedicated players of such games have spent time, energy, money and effort in developing characters, communities and online existences which are important to them, financially, emotionally and psychologically. Online friendships, economic benefits, self-efficacy - these are all important aspects of play for MMOG gamers. So developer-induced euthanasia is a curious question. Should they feel behoven to those dedicated participants who have financed their computer game endeavours within the supportive and exciting worlds which they have managed to create?Well, the eventuality of a non-liquid product is catered for in every online game's End-User License Agreement, but then again, so is the restriction on buying and selling game goods for real-cash (based upon complex intellectual property legalities) and that's a flourishing market from which some designers and publishers are reaping huge profits.Furthermore, this has implications for the demographic of people who play the games. A fickle audience willing to depart one title for the one with the latest buzz tends to not be as dedicated to the community which the developers and publishers masterfully put into place in the months (and occasionally years) before the game's release. Particularly the female players, who arereportedto be less likely to switch online games, are the underdogs here, sinking with a ship which eventually goes under. What about those hours of superlative dedication?In the offline sphere, it's a pretty foul state of affairs when you consider that publishers[Edit: by virtue of an email from a representative of a certain publisher which I implicated in this post who was distressed by my allegations, I've removed the offending company name and recognise the extensive log list that was sent to me which resides on their help desk's computers]rescind their customer support for products when a game's sequel comes out, leaving the owner of the obsolete version with no option but to either get through a game without any official support or to upgrade to the next instalment. Sure, this isn't an issue for most hardcore gamers who chomp at the bit to get their hands on a latest release, but for those casual gamers - and the significant proportion of women who play last-gen hardware and bargain-basement software - this leaves them without a sense that they matter to the company they're funding.Every online gamer must deal with the eventuality of a product being pulled, but the willingness of developers and publishers to kill off elements which they have spent time and money on undermines the gaming experience designers encourage and many hundreds of thousands of players take to heart. Where do level 60 avatars go when they die? And how willing would you be to work your way to the top of the pile only to be shunted back to n00b status because of a bottom line?
All the attributes spelled disaster. The project was conceived in a hurry, to meet political deadlines. The agency handed the job was up to its eyes in other projects; so was the prime contractor. The users were an independent-minded body of professionals with a record of resisting new systems.This was the background to one of the more remarkable government IT projects of recent years. Qmas, the quality management and analysis system, allows NHS patients for the first time to find out how good their doctor is. It is also building up a unique database showing the spread of common chronic diseases, based on information from real patients.The remarkable thing about Qmas is that it works. It was installed on schedule to nearly 8,500 GP practices. Government ministers - normally wary of endorsing NHS computer systems - last week hailed it as a breakthrough. "Good news for NHS patients and good value for money for taxpayers," said Lord Warner, junior minister.Qmas is the first major success for the world's largest civil IT programme, the &pound;6bn effort to computerise NHS healthcare. As such, it is a welcome boost to credibility and morale. Unfortunately, its success may not be replicable elsewhere, as the implementation came with juicy carrots attached.Qmas was not originally part of the NHS national programme for IT, which was charged with setting up shared electronic health records to support electronic appointment booking and prescribing. Qmas was needed by another wing of the NHS, to handle a change in the way GPs are paid. The revolution was to reward GPs according to improvements in their population's health rather than the size of their patient lists. This needed live data from live patient records.For the NHS's central IT team, the Qmas project was about as welcome as a mouth ulcer. Because the go-live date was fixed by the GP contract, still under negotiation, the system had to be designed on the fly. The IT was procured from BT, already busy with several billion pounds' worth of health contracts. It all had to be working by April this year, which meant interfacing with 17 GP computer systems, from 10 suppliers, some of which were in rocky business circumstances. Qmas's browser had to extract key "clinical indicators" from records, format them in a common way, and forward them to a central server.It happened. According to the NHS, service availability was 100% during the crucial busy period this year. Qmas is the NHS's first truly national modern IT system (another complication - the GP contract covers the UK; the national IT programme only England).What's the secret? The new NHS IT agency Connecting for Health is keen to take credit for professional project management. However, Qmas came with a significant incentive for users: only by hooking up to the system could GPs claim payments averaging &pound;75,000 a year.No doubt the incentive could be replicated elsewhere in the public sector. Whether the Treasury would agree is another matter.www.ic.nhs.uk/services/qof
The chance to make a quick buck from Hurricane Katrina has not escaped some, with items on eBay including a "rain-soaked newspaper" delivered on the day the storm hit the American south, jars of rainwater and a message in a bottle that supposedly led to the rescue of several families.Among other items on sale on eBay yesterday was a scribbling that a Texan "artist" claims he drew after waking from a dream 10 days before the storm, which uncannily resembles satellite pictures of Katrina. One man, claiming to be a survivor of the catastrophe, is offering the rights to his story, starting at $12,500 (&pound;6,800).Various T-shirts, bumper stickers and badges are on offer, either proclaiming "I survived Hurricane Katrina" or making jokes. One reads "I went to New Orleans and all I looted was this lousy T-shirt". Another says "Disaster Relief: Get Rid of Bush".The appearance of items on eBay aimed at ghoulish souvenir hunters has become common after disasters. Soon after the September 11 attacks, pieces of the World Trade Centre were being offered for sale. People also attempted to sell debris from the space shuttle Columbia.The message in a bottle allegedly read "Help ... Help ... Mother-2 Children no water ... no food" and then gave an address. The seller claims to have been given the item at a reunion centre in Dallas.A spokesman for eBay said it judged items on a case by case basis. "We have clearly defined policies on what is not allowed," he said. He would not discuss the Katrina items, but said in the case of 9/11, a newspaper from September 12 would be allowed, but pieces of debris would not.
Digital camerasLED there be lightAt IFA in Berlin Toshiba unveiled a tiny projector which it claims is ideal for hooking up to a laptop computer for business presentations or for taking on holiday. Unlike conventional projectors which incorporate hefty lamps, the ultra-portable FF1 uses LEDs, which are much more energy efficient. The result is that the projector can run on batteries for up to two hours. Measuring 136x39x100mm and weighing in at a little over 500g, the FF1 can be used comfortably on screen sizes up to around 40inches - though brightness isn't the best we've seen. It will be available before Christmas complete with foldable white screen for around &pound;700.www.toshiba.co.ukZoom boomThe three latest additions to Canon's Digital IXUS compact camera range are set to go on sale this month. The 7.1 mega pixel IXUS 750, 5.0 mega pixel IXUS 55 and IXUS i zoom all sport large LCD monitors, include an optical zoom and feature the company's DIGIC image processing system. The 750 and 55 also offer manual and creative facilities while the bottom-end i zoom comes with a Camera Station that offers battery recharging as well as simple connections to PCs, printers and TVs. Prices are &pound;419 for the 750, &pound;329 for the 55 and &pound;319 for the i zoom.www.canon.co.ukMusic devicesHere in my carHarman Kardon is to launch an in-car solution for the iPod. Unveiled at the IFA show in Berlin, the Drive + Play incorporates three components: a docking station which sits in the glovebox, a dashboard-mounted LCD screen which displays track titles and a control unit which replicates the navigation wheel of the iPod (this is mounted by the gear stick). Unlike most other iPod solutions for the car, Harman Kardon claims the Drive + Play is an off-the-shelf solution which can be self-installed without much difficulty. It is expected to launch in November. Prices have yet to be confirmed.www.harman.comHardwareBig screen bonanzaIf there's one thing guaranteed to draw the crowds at a consumer electronics show it's a big screen. And you don't get any bigger than the one Samsung was showing on its stand at IFA in Berlin last week. Measuring a whopping 102 inches across, the "world's largest plasma" (for now) incorporates full High Definition (1920 x 1080) resolution, PIP (Picture in Picture) and a double screen facility. The downside is that Samsung isn't intending to sell it. Instead those who want the largest commercially available plasma screen will have to plump for Samsung's titchy 80inch model (PS80X5H). This provides full HD resolution and comes with a 40Watt surround sound system.www.samsungelectronics.comFind your waySatellite Navigation specialist Navman has unveiled the iCN 500, a top-end GPS system that features a four Gigabyte hard drive which is pre-loaded with street level maps of 16 European countries. The iCN 500 is also the first portable GPS system (it can be moved from car to car) to offer live traffic updates through its additional TM 500M traffic module. Information about incidents and problems are transmitted to the device via FM and then displayed as icons on the onscreen maps. It goes on sale next month for &pound;599, or &pound;699 when accompanied by the TM550.www.navman.co.ukCenter of attentionPhilips has become the first major consumer electronics brand to announce a Windows Media Center set-top box for the UK. Unveiled at the IFA show in Berlin the MCP9350i, above, incorporates a 250Gb hard drive, Intel Pentium 4 3.0GHz processor, DVD/CD recorder, wi-fi (802.11b/g) connectivity and extensive memory card slots (SD, MMC, Memory Stick and Compact Flash). Other connections include three Firewire sockets and four USBs. Capable of playing back High Definition (HD) content, it also incorporates Philips' picture enhancing technology, Digital Natural Motion. The slimline silver and black set-top box is expected to retail for a rather hefty &pound;1,000 when it launches in October.www.philips.comStat of the week - instant rivalsGoogle's instant messaging launch will be looking to break the dominance of its biggest rivals in a tough market. That's combined with the fact that American users - Google's core home market - sent marginally fewer instant messages in July than the previous month.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Is the budget compact digital camera in danger of extinction? With camera phones like the Sharp Vodafone 903, which launches this week, it looks a possibility.The clamshell 903 is virtually identical to its predecessor, the 902, except that it has a more angular design, comes in black, not white and boasts a 3.2 (as opposed to 2.0) megapixel camera. The images are a clear leap forward, too, in that they feature superb colour, definition and contrast.Sharp has also worked hard on the camera's facilities, which now include an effective auto focus, a useful 2x optical zoom and a variable exposure option. The handset includes a top-quality MP3/AAC music player and excellent integrated speakers, a high resolution 2.4in 262k colour display and access to Vodafone's Live! 3G services.Unfortunately, it is still saddled with the 902's primitive web browser. In spite of a few enhancements, the POP3 email client and personal organiser remain fiddly.Nevertheless, the 903 is as much a camera as it is a phone. Its only weakness is its chunky size. The price is to be confirmed.www.vodafone.co.uk
With the Xbox 360, Microsoft is trying to redefine the games console business in its favour. But it could end up redefining business software development as well.So far, most Xbox commentary has focused on the hardware: the 3.2GHz PowerPC-based multi-threaded triple-core processor, custom ATI graphics processor, and so on. But UK managing director Alistair Baker says: "It's not about the hardware, it's about the games. It's about helping developers unleash the power of software."Microsoft already has a major software development platform for Windows: Visual Studio. This was extended to make it the best software development platform for mobile phones and PDAs running versions of Windows CE. Now it's being extended again, as part of Microsoft's XNA next-generation development platform for Xbox 360 games developers.XNA Studio will include Visual Studio 2005 Team System. But it will also try to pull together content creation - including graphics, sound, coding and testing - and provide the workflow tools to manage the production process.Microsoft doesn't expect to write all the tools itself. Part of the XNA sales strategy is making it a standard games industry platform that can take "pluggable components" from other software houses - though it's hard to imagine Sony or Nintendo will want to play.XNA could make it quicker, and cheaper, for developers to create games, just as Visual Studio makes it easier for corporate developers to create business applications for Windows. And since XNA Studio is optimised for creating Xbox and PC games, this could result in more and better games for Microsoft systems.XNA won't be cheap, but the savings could be attractive. If you have 20 developers each costing &pound;40,000 a year, then developing a game can easily cost &pound;2m. Shaving three months off the development time saves at least &pound;200,000.It could also widen the market. Games are often developed for specific platforms, with coders trying to wring the last iota of performance from obscure hardware features. Moving development to a higher level should make it easier to target multiple platforms - games consoles, PCs, Xbox Live, web- or TV-based gaming, mobiles, and so on.Chief XNA architect J Allard believes games should be playable in different situations the way movies run everywhere from big-screen cinemas to portable players.Microsoft has built its business strategy around supporting developers, and helping them create the hundreds of thousands of Windows programs that attract PC buyers. There's a fair chance it can appeal to games programmers, too - especially if the Xbox 360 takes off.Converting the content creators and other team members may be harder. However, if Microsoft succeeds, this could have implications far beyond the games business.After all, corporations have content creators as well as coders, and many businesses have the same workflow problems bringing everything together. If XNA Studio works in the games business, it's unlikely to stay there forever.
Putting it nicelyReal World GolfPlayStation 2, &pound;49.99 (including controller)In2Games, ****In2Games' Gametrak must be the strangest videogames input device ever. It is a plastic unit that sits on the floor in front of your TV, with two vertical wires attached to gloves that you wear. The result is a cumbersome-looking object that tracks hand movements - like Sony's Eye Toy, only with greater precision.However, the Gametrak works like a dream, and Real World Golf (available for &pound;29.99 if you have a Gametrak controller) showcases its abilities much better than Dark Wind, last year's beat-'em-up for the system.It comes with a foot-long plastic golf club, designed to stop you smashing furniture as you swing, although you can use a real club. The game is a typical, if basic, simulator, with five courses and an extensive tutorial with driving, putting and chipping ranges. Choose your course, grip your club and let rip with your best approximation of a swing, and the virtual ball responds accordingly.To alter your aim, select the correct option after stepping on the foot pedal and extend either hand. Approach play often involves employing a truncated swing - the game gives you a percentage of the full swing required, and you can step back to practise achieving the correct weight. Putting is something of a cop-out: the game automatically aims for you, and, as with chipping, you merely need to get the weight of shot right.Up to four can play concurrently (each will need a controller), and there are diverting mini-games. But the game starts to impress when you begin to work out, for example, how to fade and hook shots. Bizarre, but extremely beguiling.Steve BoxerA wall of muscleThe Incredible Hulk: Ultimate DestructionPlayStation 2 (also GameCube and Xbox), &pound;39.99Radical Entertainment/ VU Games, ****In Radical's first outing with the big mean green one they tried to mix up the gameplay, giving us the opportunity to play not only the Hulk, but take on stealth-based action as Bruce Banner. This time, they have kept things simple and gone for Hulkish shenanigans the whole way, a level of purity that serves the game well.The main part of Ultimate Destruction involves story-driven missions where the Hulk is used to help find a cure for Banner's condition using a mind-controlling contraption built by his friend Doc Samson. There's also the opportunity to take on side missions and earn more of the smash points you need to buy new moves.And there are an impressive number of ways to reduce everything to rubble - from breaking cars in two and using them as giant metal gloves to smashing up the scenery into a source of deadly projectiles.There are only two main mission areas - the city and the badlands - and after a while you yearn for new things to break. But as you pound down the street, smashing your way through enemies, leaping on to buildings and knocking helicopters out of the sky, you get a great sense of what it is like to be a walking wall of green muscle.Rhianna PratchettMid-table kickaboutWorld Tour SoccerPlayStation Portable, &pound;34.99Sony, ***Cricket may be all the rage, but when it comes to videogame sports, football is still top of the league. This is mainly because the beautiful game is far simpler to recreate in digital form than trying to work out the idiosyncracies of cricket.The launch of the PSP allows developers to move the action into 3D with World Tour Soccer - the first footy game for PSP. The game takes a lighter approach than the best in the genre, Pro Evolution Soccer. It does lack the glamour of Fifa's presentation, although a surprising number of licensed teams are included.There are cups, leagues and multiplayer options but it is the challenge mode that really grips. This gives points for passing and scoring and subtracts for missed tackles and goals conceded. Do well and you are rewarded with new teams - such as 70s Liverpool - and gear.The quick and easy action is perfect to pick up and play on short journeys, while the controls are generally responsive. However, players don't always react correctly. It is easy to string together nice passes and scoring is satisfying, even if the focus is more on 30-yard screamers than more realistic tap-ins.The game looks pretty impressive, with top players fairly lifelike. It was always going to lose out to bigger name rivals, but as a mid-table kickabout you can't go too wrong.Greg Howson&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.ukTop 5 gamesAll formats1.Ridge racer2.Brian Lara International Cricket 20053.Wipeout Pure4.Virtual Tennis: World Tour5.Metal Gear Acid&#183;Leisure software charts compiled by Chart Track, &copy; 2005 Elspa (UK) Ltd
DedupeI have accumulated several thousand MP3 files and would like to weed out just the duplicates. Is there a (preferably free) piece of software that doesn't need to play/burn etc but will search all attached drives &amp; then list the dupes?Andy WhitehouseJack Schofield replies:There are lots of programs that will find duplicate files by making byte-for-byte comparisons rather than just looking at the filenames. Unfortunately I can't find a good free one. Commercial or shareware examples include ExamDiff Pro (www.prestosoft.com/ps.asp?page=edp_examdiffpro), Duplicate File Detective, (www.duplicate-file-detective.com) and NoClone Home Edition (http://noclone.net), with the cheapest at $15 being Spaceman 99 (www.extrabit.com/spaceman99/). Searching Download.com will turn up a few more (http://www.google.com/search). Most offer at least a free trial.Site blockerI get very annoyed when websites will not permit you to use the Back button (close down being the only alternative) or have other annoying features. Is there a way of quarantining such sites so that your browser will not go there again?John BoothbyJS:When your browser is going to a website, the first thing it does is look for a hosts file on your PC. You can use this file to tell the browser that the site is on your PC at the local address 127.0.0.1 (known as loopback), not on the web. To block a site such as www.xxxx.com, search your hard drive to find the hosts file, and load it in Notepad or another plain text editor. Now enter a separate line as follows:127.0.0.1 www.xxxx.comIn future, the browser will look in the wrong place for the site (ie on your hard drive) and report it as Not Found. This technique is commonly used to block unwanted advertising sites, and you can download prepopulated hosts files (seewww.mvps.org/winhelp2002/hosts.htm). Also, note that some malware tampers with your hosts file, so that when you try to go to Google, for example, the browser is redirected to www.xxxx.com or worse.Incidentally, if the Back button is disabled, you should be able to click the small down-arrow next to the button and go back to any of the sites on the drop-down list.Move itI have an old Windows 95 PC that I'd like to junk, but it has a lot of data I need to hive off. Copying it to floppies would take a very long time.M RichJS:You should not have any data to hive off: it should all be backed up! However, I appreciate this is harder for Windows 95 users whose PCs pre-date external CD writers that can simply be plugged in to a USB or FireWire port, and lack the ports in which to plug them. If you have broadband, you could zip all the files into one or two smaller files and upload them to a website such as Rapidshare.de, then download them to your new PC. Rapdishare handles files up to 50MB. (Use WinRAR, password-protect the files, and remember to keep the link that enables you to delete the files later.)If you don't have broadband or have too much data to upload, your best bet is probably to transfer the files via a serial or parallel cable. It can take a long time but usually you can leave it running overnight. I've used Traveling Software's LapLink for Windows to do the job. It's not the cheapest method, but the packaged version comes with suitable cables - as long as your new PC is not USB-only - and it works. Alternatives I have not tried include FastLynx (http://sewelldirect.com/fastlynxhomepage.asp), Powercopy (www.datapower.de/index_e.htm) and FileVan (http://filevan.com/link.htmlThere are also packages that will attempt to transfer both your data and your settings, such as Easy PC Transfer (www.stompsoft.com/easypctransfer.html), Alohabob's PC Relocator (www.alohabob.com) and SpearIt's Move Me (www.spearit.com). However, I suspect you'd be better off using LapLink or FastLynx and Microsoft's Files and Settings Transfer Wizard. Microsoft provides a step-by-step guide to making the migration atwww.microsoft.com/technet/prodtechnol/winxppro/deploy/mgrtfset.mspxBackchat&#183;Marilyn Sackman asked if Microsoft Windows XP would still run her old copy of Microsoft Money. Michael Shaw reports running Money 99 under Windows XP Home "for over 12 months with no problems whatsoever". Jason Seaward says: "I run Money 99 on Windows XP very happily, although there are some minor quirks like losing mouse selection for drop down lists (use tab instead)." Peter Cornes and David Cook are still using even older versions of Money with XP, and David adds: "In any case, XP has a Program Compatibility mode and associated Wizard, which is specifically intended to allow programs that ran on older versions of Windows to run on XP."&#183;Send comments and questions toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Letters will be edited but please include full details.
