John Aris, who has died aged 76, was a pioneer of the application of computers for business use. In the late 1970s, he was one of the first to recognise that the future of business computing lay with smaller, cheaper machines more than with mainframes; and with widely available pre-programmed applications rather than custom-built software. Working at the Imperial Tobacco Group, he was one of the first computing managers in the world to oust a mainframe in favour of end-user-managed minis and to encourage the advent of personal computers.John's career in computing began in 1958 when he was recruited to the Leo (Lyons Electronic Office) computer team by J Lyons, then the major food business in the UK, and initiators of the notion that the future of computers lay in their use as a business tool. At the time, the prevailing view was that work with computers required a trained mathematician. The Leo management thought otherwise and recruited using an aptitude test. John, an Oxford classics graduate, passed with flying colours, noting that "the great advantage of studying classics is that it does not fit you for anything specific".When a series of mergers brought about the formation of International Computers Ltd (ICL) in 1968, John became chief systems engineer and had the unusual experience of explaining to the board of the new company what, in the eyes of its customers, its products were for. After a spell as ICL's technical director for western Europe, based in Paris, in 1975 he joined Imperial as head of computer development.With this move from a supplier to a user company, John discovered that he had underestimated the knowledge and skill of users at all levels. He used that insight at first within Imperial, and subsequently, from 1985, as full-time director of the National Computing Centre (NCC), set up by the government to encourage computer use, and of the computer club Impact, a forum for users. Many of the UK's leading companies and public sector bodies participated in Impact: in reviews, detailed comparisons with best practice, seminars, debates and lectures.As NCC director, John had to concentrate on moving away from a heavy financial dependence on government contracts. Perhaps the most striking achievement of his term of office was selling NCC-developed telecommunications standards-testing software to the official standards bodies of both the US and Japan as their main enforcement tool. He succeeded in raising the NCC's non-government revenue by 71%. Nonetheless, he had to reduce the workforce substantially when the government contracts dried up, and in 1990 he resigned.Born in London, John was a clever child, and his parents, an insurance executive and a painter, who were far from rich, gambled on his winning an Eton scholarship, which he did. His father was a keen amateur actor and John's brother Ben became a well-known professional actor, but John's stage career never progressed beyond schoolboy productions.Aged 15, he decided that classics was more interesting than mathematics, his best subject, and pursued it, despite teachers' disapproval. Before going to Magdalen College, Oxford, John did two years' national service in the Royal Artillery, including some time in Korea. Subsequently he joined the Territorial Army and rose to the rank of major, specialising as a parachutist. Later in life he took up scuba diving, which he said was easy compared with parachuting.John was a man of many parts. He remained a devotee of classical Greek civilisation and language. At Eton he had learned to play the clarinet and he went on to compose works including a divertimento for soprano and nine woodwind instruments. It was recorded by musicians of the Northern School of Music. He played in several amateur orchestras, and once performed Holst's Planets under the baton of Sir Adrian Boult. He was equally at home in the world of art, and his collection included works by the topographical artist David Roberts, as well as by Joshua Reynolds and Jean-Honoré Fragonard, and cartoons by Heath Robinson.John was a great traveller and visited at least 200 countries. Another hobby was gastronomy, both eating out and cooking. While living in Paris, he tried to eat at every Michelin-starred restaurant in the city (he managed 80 out of 90). He strongly believed in eating local food, however exotic (his meals included on various occasions fried frog skins, bat, egg with embryo, and guinea pig), and was especially fond of 100-year-old eggs.John retired gradually from running Impact, and left the project in 2000. But he retained an active role in computing. As a member of the Worshipful Company of Computer Technologists he helped establish the annual Pinkerton prize for a promising computer engineering apprentice. As a trustee of the Leo Foundation, he never missed a Leo Society reunion. He played a leading role in organising the 2001 conference at the London Guildhall commemorating the 50th anniversary of the first business application run on the Leo computer.John is survived by his sister, Hilary.• John Bernard Benedict Aris, business systems engineer, born 6 June 1934; died 6 August 2010
Maidenhead railway station. Photo bysay_cheddaron Flickr.Some rights reservedYesterday wepointedto theinteresting work being done by OpenlyLocalwith its council spending system, where you can interrogate its database (garnered from a so-far small but growing list of councils) to see which suppliers are getting the most money from them.On the way I queried the reported complaints by Liam Maxwell, the councillor responsible for IT policy at the Royal Borough of Windsor &amp; Maidenhead, about the challenge of getting open source implemented at the council. He was quoted saying that it needed central government to mandate the use of open standards in office software - specifically, the Open Document Format (ODF) - so that RBW&amp;M could migrate to cheaper desktops.Do you really have to standardise on ODF, I asked? Won't the existing Microsoft formats do the job just as well?Now Maxwell has got in touch. He's got an interesting story to tell - and his council is one which is thinking very seriously about how to get the cost of IT in local government pushed down. The logic: reduce those costs, and you don't have to cut other services when you're faced with an across-the-board reduction in your grant from a central government bringing in austerity measures.I spoke to him earlier today and asked if he was serious about the necessity of ODF being mandated before real change could happen - and how much the savings could be, and what's happening with local government. Here's how he explained it - and these thoughts are going to be expanded in a paper that he is preparing to release next week with much more detail."If one council goes to a service provider such as Capita and asks for a change to its Revenues and Benefits system so it works with OpenOffice and ODF instead of Microsoft Office, Capita will tell them to go away. But if government mandates it, then Capita or any of these other companies that do this work for councils could get it done in six months. It's a dysfunctional market because it's set by standards which are set at the centre." And the centre - in this case the Cabinet Office - has heretofore said that Microsoft Office is the standard.(Note that Tom Watson, the Labour MP who was a Cabinet Office minister under the previous Labour administration, did in 2009 try topush along efforts to encourage open source in government. That's not quite the same though as mandating ODF for office documents in local government.)"Only the Cabinet Office can set this standard. It does sound a bit wet [to be waiting for that instead of just doing it in the council] but this is what's actually stopping it happening. There's a huge saving to be made. If just half of councils moved half of their employees from Microsoft Office formats to ODF the cost of running desktops could come down dramatically - it would save £51m. If all of the councils moved all of their employees off Office, the savings would be £200m, though of course you're not going to get that happening."What's tying them into Office? As Maxwell put it to me, "you assume Office is only used for, well, office-y things like writing a letter or doing  a presentation. Sadly it is not that simple, if it were £300 Office licences would have gone years ago (because it is a commodity, there's an open source version of it)."However, because Microsoft Office is integrated into the applications our officers use (when they want to write a planning letter they have to use Microsoft Word because it is coded that way in the planning application) we are stuck with it. So engineering our way out of that is pretty complex."But moving to OpenOffice would mean all those systems could interoperate - and it would even be possible to interoperate with Google Docs, which would represent an even bigger financial saving on Microsoft Office-based systems. And once you start to shift to Google Docs (and email and calendaring), everything is in the cloud which means that data centres suddenly aren't your concern any more - they're Google's. (Or whichever cloud provider you go with.)Maxwell says that once you get there, then the dominoes of spending start to fall. Why, for example, do local councils duplicate so many of their services? "95% of what we do is the same as what every other council does. There's about 1% localisation. It's a commodity service. But if you go to other local councils and talk about shared services, they say 'fine, as long as you useourservice.'"Even so, open standards on the desktop have the potential to save huge amounts of money. At Windsor &amp; Maidenhead, the council desktops cost an averaged amount of £345 per year to run. In central government, the amount is £800-£1600. But inMadieraExtremadura, in Spain, the cost is about £130 per year. And in asingle year the Dutch government achieved improvementsin interoperability (31%), cost reductions (8%), and quality improvements in municipal government (225) in moving to mandated open source across central government.So where do the costs come from in central government? A bit more security - but, asks Maxwell, is there really £500 more per year in security costs for every desktop there?He suggests that IT is costing central and local government about 10 times more than it should. Certainly, initiatives like theG-Cloudcould push that down; but what's clearly needed is for Francis Maude, in charge of the Cabinet Office, to mandate ODF as soon as possible, so that councils can start tomorrow on migrating to cheaper desktops. We'll all benefit, after all, if they can provide the same services at lower costs. Well, possibly some suppliers won't do so well - but every gravy train has to hit the buffers at some point.And another couple of statistics to ruminate over from Maxwell: "we spend 1.2% of our GDP on government computing. We spend more on procurement in government than we do on Wales."He insists that the Windsor &amp; Maidenhead "aren't being drips. There's a real technical reason [for not moving to open source] which only central government can change. And Francis [Maude] has said he will do it. ODF would open everything up. The Dutch government did that, and that's why they saved so much money."The Dutch example may be one worth examining further - but in the meantime, our apologies for doubting Mr Maxwell yesterday. And watch out for the discussion paper next week.
More years ago than I like to remember, you recommended a utility called Flashback, which enabled you to take periodic copies of a file so that you could restore it to any previous version of the file. So if I used a spreadsheet as a template and overwrote it, when I eventually noticed my mistake, I could recover the original file. It doesn't seem to run properly on Windows 7. Do you know of any more recent utility that will do this job? I'd like one that will take copies automatically of any file that is being worked on.Paul DoverFileHamster. But before I answer your question, I'd like to steer you towards a different way of working. First, put your templates in a work folder called Templates. To create a document for (say) the Olympics, right-click the template in Windows Explorer and copy it to your Olympics folder. Next, go to the copy, press F2 and give the file its final name. Finally, double-click the file to load it and work away, hitting Ctrl-S to save it whenever you pause for thought. You won't overwrite templates by accident, and if you create documents where you want to store them, you'll never have to file them later.This approach does not make periodic copies of the file but, for example, Microsoft Word 2002 used to do this for you if you went to File and selected Version. The drawback was that it kept all the versions in the original file, which was not very useful if you wanted to go back to an earlier version because of a corrupted file….Versioning disappeared from Office 2007*. Microsoft said: "A more robust versioning feature that stores the information for each version separately is provided with document libraries on Windows SharePoint Services 3.0 sites and Microsoft Office SharePoint Server 2007 sites." This is fine if you have Windows Server 2003 or later, but presumably it would work if you used a free SharePoint-based site such asMicrosoft Office Live. I have not tried it.* Someone did produce a replacement versioning utility,AutoHistory for Word 2007 / Word 2010 RC, but I can't find one for Excel.So, to answer your question more fully, there are several programs that "will take copies automatically of any file that is being worked on". These can be continuous and/or timed backups, or version control systems where you might have a series of documents intended for review, or a bit of both. You might have to try a few to find what you want.Start withFileHamster, which will monitor specific files or folders on your hard drive and automatically create backups when they are changed. It has lots of options and is scriptable. It keeps separate versions so you can find the ones you want by date and time. FileHamster Basic costs $29, Advanced costs $79 and Enterprise costs $99. You can download a trial version, in exchange for your email address, and this seems to revert to a free version when it times out.FileHamster: lots of optionsIf FileHamster is not suitable then you will have tolook for alternatives.AutoVer 1.4.3is a free (donationware) automated versioning and backup program. You can also set it to store a version when you save the file (though in my case, that would lead to a dozen files per hour). AutoVer copies versions to a backup folder that you can browse with its Backup Explorer. However, companies may have diverse views about downloading software from a personal website, Bean's Place, with a Family section.DocShieldtakes snapshots of files and stores them in an archive compressed with 7-Zip. For extra safety, it will maintain several archives, so you could have a backup on a USB drive or an external hard drive. Obviously, if you set too short a time interval and/or try to protect too many files, this will lead to very large archives. DocShield costs $39, though it is free for personal use.Other possibilities includeBackup &gt; Launch, which simply creates a backup before launching a file, andTrackMyFiles, which provides continuous file monitoring.Versioning is also common on server-based document management and collaborative systems, where people typically have to keep undoing things other people have done. Most of these are, like SharePoint, intended for company use, but Google Apps also does versioning. Unfortunately,Google Spreadsheetsis limited and clunky compared to Excel. Online alternatives includeZoho SheetandMicrosoft Office Web Apps, where you can upload files to your free 25GB SkyDrive or use Microsoft Office 10's Save To Web feature.Dropboxonline storage also keeps versions for "undo" purposes, but it only keeps them for 30 days unless you pay.
Guardian Technology was at the firstSocial Innovation Campback in April 2008, and the hacking-for-good project is still going strong. So strong, in fact, that it is now much bigger - it has turned intoBethnal Green Ventures.Still with the same ethos as Social Innovation Camp, BGV matchmakes between developers and undevelopers who all want to use the web or mobile to build practical, useful tools for education, health or some form of social good.BGV is launching with a ten-week, one evening-a-week 'ideas nightschool' where developers, designers, strategists and anyone with a good idea can bring problems and projects together. It's an early stage accelerator for social innovation, according to Social Innovation Camp director Anna Maybank.If you liked the sound ofUshahidi,Kiva,patientopinion- or are a fan of any of the projects MySociety produce - this is for you.Apply right now, because the deadline is 1 September and there's only room for four or five projects.Photo byInha Leex Haleon Flickr.Some rights reserved.
The tech sector does very well onStartups 100 2010, which serves as a very handy overview of the new business ideas making some waves right now.Huddle, quite rightly, tops the list. The service was only launched four years ago (theyElevator Pitchedto us in October 2008) so clearly those Silicon Bermondsey parties paid off somewhere down the line. Alastair Mitchell and Andy McLoughlin raised $10.2m 100 days ago in their most recent funding round to expand their US business. Somehow, they managed to make business collaboration software sexy. Who knew.Seatwave,WongaandZooplaare all top 10,Slicethepie,SupaJam,TweetdeckandSkimlinksall top 25 andMendeleyandTweetMememake the top 50. And there'sSpoonfedat 60 too. Just a shame the list can't be organised by sector.Photo by-just-jen-on Flickr.Some rights reserved.
Google has added free voice calls over the internet to its free email service Gmail in the US - although some UK users have found they can also use the service to make calls to the US for free.The service, unveiled on Wednesday night, will let users make free calls at least to the end of this year within the US and Canada. That presently undercuts Skype, which charges per minute for calls to landline numbers. It also threatens existing VOIP providers, and the recently introduced MagicTalk service from VocalTec.But in using internet technology to carry the phone calls, Google is also positioning itself as a dangerous rival to US long-distance carriers, and telecoms companies carrying international voice traffic, which have seen their businesses being eaten into by calls carried over the internet. Many call centres, for instance, use voice-over-internet technology so that international calls can be handled more cheaply than with high-quality voice lines.While computer-to-computer calling isn't new, computer-to-phone services have been much rarer, with Skype - which in August said it has 8.1m paying customers - being the only one that has managed to crack it convincingly. Vonage, a US company, offers a service in which customers have standard phones but make calls through VOIP - though they still need a landline for the basic telephone connection.Google hopes to make money from the service by charging for international calls - though those will vary widely, even within the same country. It has achart of rates. People also will be able to receive calls on their PC if they obtain a free phone number from Google, or already have one through its Google Voice service.The new arrival poses a threat not just to telecoms companies: Skype isplanning a $100m flotation, but is burdened with debt and is also making significant capital investment. However, it dwarfs Google Voice for reach, having a total of 560m users, up 36% from last year, though the number of paying customers only rose 23% in the same time. In its SEC filing it noted that there could be competition from companies like Apple and BSkyB - and Google.But Skype does make an operating profit, with income of $13m on revenues of $406m in the first half of this year.So far Google Voice - which was until about two months ago an invitation-only service as the company absorbed its acquisition of GrandCentral, the VOIP provider that underlies this function - has more than 1.4m assigned phone numbers. Those can then be used as the destination point for calls made to a home, office or mobile phone - like the 0700 "follow me" numbers used in the UK.Google is also going to promote the service by setting up red phone booths in US universities and airports, letting them make free calls inside North America, and cheaper ones outside it.The company also wants to make it possible to transfer existing home or mobile numbers to Google Voice to broaden its appeal.At present only users of the Gmail system inside the US are being offered the service. Business, military and government users of Google's mail and calendar services are not yet being offered the service, but it may be broadened to them: "we're working on making this available more broadly - stay tuned!" said Nick Foster, a Google Voice software engineer, in ablog post on Wednesday.
Checked outMySpacerecently? I just did, and it made me rather nostalgic for summer 2006 when I used it a lot. As well as the social aspect - long since replaced by Twitter and Facebook - the motivation for using it was music. So in 2010, what's changed?The site has just had a refresh - and not before time. Profiles have been simplified to make navigation easier and there's a more uniform menu throughout.I hadn't logged in for ages, and got an alert to say that my visitors, and the pages I visit, are being tracked by the site - is that OK? (Facebook doesn't bother asking, note.) Then I get an alert saying there are changes to privacy settings, with one overall privacy options replacing different options for different contacts. Sounds like they learnt more than a little from Facebook on that number, too.The new navigation and some of the boxishness of the site is Facebooky too, but then it would be a surprise if MySpacehadn'tincorporated elements of Facebook. They wouldn't want to admit it, but Facebook has long since taken over the pathfinding in experimenting with formats, privacy settings, user behaviour and the rest, and that does influence design on other sites to a greater or lesser extent.The main MySpace page is completely dominated by music, and by the summer festivals. Which is as it should be - and a shame it took them so long to turn that up to 11. If I ran  MySpace I'd dump everything on that site apart from the bands, and make  it a speciality music marketing site with live music streams, live gigs, ticketing, editorial, live chats with bands and the rest. But that's  never going to happen, and whatever strategy the MySpace top dogs think  they're employing just doesn't come across on the site. It's still a mess. I think the MySpace train has left the station, and without taking any passengers with it.I found this on the profile of a friend, which about sums up MySpace on a number of levels - not least the demographic they appear to be failing to exploit:"Young, enthusiastic, fun. Good at spending money. Good at drinking. I fucking hate MySpace. It is the most popular badly designed (and built) site ever. Just look at that navigation! Look at it, it's fucking terrible! I'm logged in - but where is the link to my profile!?!"• NB MySpace wasted no time in getting in touch to point out the UK homepageislargely taken over by music, and that they have streamed gigs recently, notably theiTunes Festival- which offered pretty much everything I suggested. The Mystery Jets also did a secret show and other recent live events have included The Dead Weather and Hot Chip. So itisall about the music...
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
"Time to work from home." Photo bycodepo8on Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamChat with No Interruptions &gt;&gt; Facebook"Many of you have told us that sometimes your Chat session comes and goes or even stops completely. We're working hard to end those interruptions so that your experience is stable and consistent."The good news: We've already made progress, and we're taking some more big steps in the coming weeks. For example, in the past couple of weeks, we've already made Chat faster and more stable, fixed bugs and improved the technology on which it runs."But here's the thing that will hurt:no more IE6 support. Listen for the howls around corporate offices everywhere when this comes into effect. Perhaps that will create the momentum for change?Why Android won't worry RIM and Apple &gt;&gt; The Register"The entire "platform" premise behind Symbian, and the many Linuxes such as LiMo, now looks (with the benefit of hindsight) extremely dubious. The idea was that you'd get a common standard, and a network effect. The idea behind Symbian was that the platform company would do the heavy lifting, and because it's cheaper across a portfolio range, you could do lots of phones more cheaply."The Android licensees think that today - but throwing out lots of mediocre products isn't necessarily profitable. The lucrative end of the mobile device market is a product culture, and it pays to put more of your wood behind one arrow, or just a few arrows; the more you make, the less distinctive each one is. Android doesn't really do anything to encourage the development and marketing of distinctive products, must-have phones that people talk about in the pub."Fact check: malware did not bring down a passenger jet &gt;&gt; ZDNetEd Bott does some fact-checking: "I've been reading breathless and shocking "reports" for several days now explaining that "malware brought down a Spanish jet." And once again we have a case study in how the Internet echo chamber works to take a single report and distort it beyond recognition. I've now read articles from more than 20 online publications repeating this story. Not a single one has done even a shred of research beyond simply quoting a bad translation of the original Spanish-language report."Why working at home is both awesome and horrible &gt;&gt; The OatmealConsistently, scarily, true.Rustock botnet responsible for 39 percent of all spam &gt;&gt; ZDNet UK"Botnets are now responsible for sending 95 percent of all spam, up from 84 percent in April, and almost half of that spam comes from a single botnet, Rustock." And that's despite it shrinking from 2.5m to 1.3m machines. It's been around since 2008 at least.Those "iPad Mini" Rumors Make Sense &gt;&gt; Fast Company"But now there's an increasingly real-sounding rumor that Apple has another 7-inch version on the way, and it may even arrive this year. Strangely enough, it's a rumor that makes perfect sense."Fast Company suggests this would be announced in January 2011, and says it's quoted via sources in China's Economic Daily News paper.It would certainly be like its move with the iPod mini, which cemented Apple's place in the MP3 player market. But that gap existed. The gap in the tablet market isn't so obvious.Massachusetts Attorney General Martha Coakley tells Craigslist: Abandon adult sex ads &gt;&gt; BostonHerald.comCraigslist is suddenly hitting its very own scaling problem.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Moral choice systems are big in gaming. Many games identify players' "good" and "bad" decisions and give different results to each. In the cowboy adventure Red Dead Redemption, shooting passersby reduces your "honour", while helping innocent townsfolk  increases it. In the dystopian horror game Bioshock, choosing to kill "Little Sisters" – small girls bearing vital stem cells – makes the game more likely to end unhappily.Games are unique among art forms in the amount of choice they give their audience. But I hope this black-and-white approach to decision-making will fade away. None of us will ever face the choice between saving a small girl or killing her to harvest the stem cells in the sea slug in her stomach. Almost all of us, if given the option to kill  another person, would instinctively refuse. The choice not to do so would be so nearly-universal that it wouldn't actually say a lot about us. Instead, our most fascinating, chewed-over decisions aren't moral but character choices.Character decisions are about issues such as how to pursue career ambitions or how to manage a hostile friend. There are always many possible solutions: some more self-serving, some  altruistic, some direct or oblique, some louder or quieter. If we choose, for  example, to dump a friend, or forgive them, or confront them, or just stop calling and let the friendship slowly die, our decision says a lot about our character, but probably nothing at all about whether we are "good" or "bad".Moral choice systems have been a stepping stone, but can only ever model human behaviour very crudely. Just as game graphics have improved, I'd like to see their  portrayal of character  become less pixellated.
Apple has invited various journalists and analysts to an event next Wednesday at the Yerba Buena centre in San Francisco (where it unveiled the iPad and various other things).As usual, the invitation is unspecific - that's it above - beyond implying music in some way. This is the time of year when the company now refreshes its iPod line, which is starting to fade from view: sales have begun falling comparing year-on-year, so this Christmas may be its last hurrah. People are expecting an updated iPod Touch, though the plain iPod line isn't expected to get much that's new.And of course, just as it used to steal the shine from the CES show in January by having its own show and Steve Jobs's keynotes the day before the CES one, it's timed this in a way which, gracious me, takes away from the IFA consumer electronics show in Berlin which gets underway (publicly) on 3 September, though there are plenty of presentations in the days before (such as that Samsung tablet).There's ramped-up expectation that it will also be doing something to revive its AppleTV product, which has distinctly underwhelmed the market (Steve Jobs has referred to it as a "hobby"). Among the hopes for it: HDMI out, that it will run on the same iOS operating system as the iPad and iPhone, and cheap (99-cent) rentals of content. One thing you can bet on: much of the speculation about what a revised AppleTV can do isn't based on reality.
Amazon has sold out of its new low-priced Kindle - and says that demand has been higher than ever.According to a press release issued today,"Amazon.com today announced that more new generation Kindles were ordered in the first four weeks of availability than in the same timeframe following any other Kindle launch, making the new Kindles the fastest-selling ever. In addition, in the four weeks since the introduction of the new Kindle and Kindle 3G, customers ordered more Kindles on Amazon.com and Amazon.co.uk combined than any other product, continuing Kindle's over two-year run as the bestselling product across all the products sold on Amazon.com.  The new Kindles started shipping to customers today - two days earlier than previously announced.""Kindle is the best-selling product on Amazon.com for two years running and our new generation Kindles are continuing that momentum," said Steven Kessel, senior vice president, Amazon Kindle. "Readers are excited about all that the new Kindle has to offer - 50% better contrast, 20% faster page turns, 15% lighter, up to one month of battery life - and a new price of only £109."However, Amazon is not saying, and shows no signs of saying, precisely how many Kindles it has sold, or how many the latest sellout means it has sold. Similarly, when it makes proclamations about the number of ebooks "sold", it's surprisingly reticent about explaining whether those "sales" include free downloads.Earlier this year it touted the fact that it hadsold more ebooks than hardbacks on the US store over three months- but of course we weren't allowed to know how many hardbacks it had sold, nor ebooks, nor whether they were paid-for ones.However Jeff Bezos did provide one clue:"Jeff Bezos, founder of Amazon, said sales of the Kindle and ebooks had reached a "tipping point", with five authors including Steig Larsson, the writer of Girl with a Dragon Tattoo, and Stephenie Meyer, who penned the Twilight series, each selling more than 500,000 digital books."That means, obviously, there must be at least500,000166,000 Kindles out there.Update:The logic for this (revised) reasoning: Larsson is one of the 500,000-ebook sellers. He only wrote three books. The third,The Girl Who Kicked the Hornet's Nest, only went on sale via Kindle on 25 May. The first two in the series would have sold many more. So you can get a lower bound for the number if you assume *every* Kindle owner bought *all three* Larsson books. However, the upper bound for the number of Kindles is pretty much unknowable if you don't know what proportion of Kindle owners bought at least one Larsson book.We really await the news of how many Kindles have been sold. Surely, surely, someone inside Amazon would like to slip us an email...Meanwhile, the e-reader market is still attracting more entrants full of hope - even though Apple, with its iPad, and Amazon, with the Kindle, look to have it sewn up (though perhaps Sony will surprise us by telling us how many of its e-Readers it has sold; that would help). So say hello to the new - forthcoming - e-reader from a company called MerchSource, which isoffering the "Literati" for about $159via US retail stores from October. We wish it well.
The music festival season may be coming to a messy conclusion at Reading this weekend, but the UK games calendar is only just starting to hot up. This Friday, there's theGameCity Summit, a teaser night in which the organisers of the brilliantGameCity festivalwill reveal the highlights of the four-day jamboree, as well as ask audience members about what they've liked and disliked during the previous four events. There will also be several indie developers present, showing off their latest wares.It's taking place at the Antenna night club in Nottingham from 7.30pm, and you'll need topre-book your free tickets here.GameCity is especially unmissable this year because... Gamesblog will be there! Or rather,I'llbe there – hosting a series of morning debates around various topical gaming issues. Imagine Kilroy, but with games, lots of geeky chatter, me running about with a microphone, special guest stars, croissants, we'll have it all. Frankly, if you're a Gamesblog regular and you live anyway near Nottingham, you have to come along. We're sorting a really cool venue, and I'm hoping to have a big screen to show off game demos. More info soon...This weekend will also seeInsomnia 40(pictured), the self-proclaimed Glastonbury of Gaming.This is a four-day games festival taking place at Newbury Racecourse. Organised by LAN gaming site Multiplay, it's a competitive video game face-off, featuring the UK qualifiers for the World Cyber Games, as well as industry exhibitions, other large-scale LAN gaming sessions and social events. The racecourse is apparently offering catering and accommodation throughout the event, so you'll be able to eat and sleep with style while you, erm, frag the weekend away.Ticket prices start at a tenner for a spectator pass, which gets you access to the exhibitors and game demos. There's more infohere.And later in October, we can look forward to the epicLondon Games Festival, which includes the highly recommendedEurogamer Expo, a mammoth exhibition of forthcoming games, taking place at Earls Court from October 1-3. And then, November ushers in both theNeON Digital Arts Festivalin Dundee and theBradford Animation Festival(November 9-13), which will once again feature a considerable gaming component. And it looks like I'll be there, too, presenting a LIVE edition of the Tech Weekly podcast. I'm not sure if that's a selling point.So, have I missed anything?
If I could pick one word to describe what I was shown of the Call of Duty: Black Ops single-player campaign, it would be 'intense'. The action is intense, the atmosphere is intense, the violence is intense. Hell, even the weather is intense.There's probably just enough space in the internet left for me to use a few more words than that, but it's a term Treyarch community manager Josh Olin used a fair few times as he guided me through two stages of what is undoubtedly one of this year's most anticipated releases.Not that 2009's Call of Duty (COD) release Modern Warfare 2 lacked intensity, of course. But it was the glory, rather than the horrors of war that was the focus. The notable shift in tone is a clear attempt by the World at War developer to take the flagship FPS series and stamp their name all over it.Given Infinity Ward's offering last year was often described as "the biggest entertainment launch ever" (well biggest since the launch of the cup and ball in sixteenth-century France at least) a new development team had some pretty big expectations to live up to. And, so far, it looks like they've more than risen to the challenge.Black Ops' story mode focuses on the exploits of elite commando squads working behind enemy lines during the cold war. It's a setting that's been visiteda few timesin the gaming world, and the historical significance of the period, along with a new, unique arsenal of weapons to gets to grips with means its a great choice for a COD game.For the first time for Treyarch, the single and multiplayer modes had individual, dedicated teams - while many gamers see the franchise as primarily an online experience, what's on offer here is by no means an afterthought.First impressionsUnsurprisingly, it's the differences between Black Ops and Modern Warfare 2 which stand out most on first viewing.Firstly, a new motion-capture technique means in-game interactions are superbly lifelike. Character development is often overlooked in these sorts of games but this, coupled with the fact that, for the first time, you'll hear your own voice throughout the game, means you could at last feel some emotional involvement for the man behind the big gun pointing into your TV.While you'll once again control a number of characters, Olin insists characterisation and plot have been put at a premium during development - an area in which last year's effort clearly was lacking.Warm, fuzzy feelings for your squad aren't what sells a COD game, however. Thankfully, the game looks more action-packed than ever.Trees feature heavily in the game. Photograph: ActivisionA swimming section early on in the game sees you escape a sinking helicopter, then navigate your way through a murky river, surfacing only to spring up, disable a Vietnamese soldier and use his body as a shield as you take out the rest of his team.Find a dozing guard in a small hut and the command prompt triggers a grisly throat-stabbing, pull off a headshot on his patrolling companion and a bullet-time sequence shows blood spurt out of his skull - Treyarch have ramped up the gore, and Black Ops cleary isn't for the faint-hearted.Later on there's the chance to pilot a helicopter for the first time in a COD game. The colossal amount of firepower at your disposal in this stage means you can simply tear through the destructible Vietnamese camps - towers topple, supply boats explode - it's heavy-duty action on a scale not yet seen in the series.It's not all gun battles and rocket launchers, however. The latter part of the first level I was shown featured a breathless sequence where you followed a comrade, lit by torchlight, down a series of Viet Cong-infested tunnels. Rats scurry around your feet and you can almost taste the dank air.This sequence was particularly impressive, and felt more like survival horror  than your traditionally brainless guns and glory FPS fare. The immersion here realises itself fully when, in a jump-out-of-your-seat moment, a teammate is ambushed and gruesomely dispatched before your eyes.  As mentioned previously, this isn't a game that flinches away from the dark side of war.Of course, it's likely Treyarch are showcasing the less conventional levels first, but aside from these highlights, the more typical run and gun sections look as solidly enjoyable as ever.After all, there was little wrong with the mechanics of last year's release. But if the furious pace and variety of what I saw is even vaguely indicative of what the rest of the game has to offer, Black Ops could well take the blockbuster series to a whole new level.•Call of Duty: Black Ops will be released on 9 November for Xbox 360, PC, PS3 and Wii
Facebook is suing Teachbook, a US social networking site for teachers, claiming that the site "wilfully and deliberately" infringes its brand.In a trademark infringement filing at a district court in California, lawyers for Facebook saidTeachbook"rides on the coattails of the fame and enormous goodwill of the Facebook trademark".Teachbook has continued to use the mark "book" in its branding "despite Facebook's protests", the filing claimed, which they say entitles them to recover "three times the amount of its actual damages and the attorneys' fees and costs incurred in this action".Although Facebook – the world's most popular social network – appears to own no trademark on the use of "book", its representatives argue that "if others could freely use 'generic plus BOOK' marks for online social networking services [...] that would dilute the distinctiveness of the Facebook marks".Thecourt filingnotes that Teachbook has touted itself as an alternative to Facebook, pointing to a page on the site (since removed) which read: "Many schools forbid their teachers to maintain Facebook and MySpace accounts because of the danger that students might learn personal information about their teachers. With Teachbook, you can manage your profile so that only teachers and/or school administrators can see your personal information, blogs, posts, and so on."Barry Schnitt, a Facebook spokesman,told Wired.comthat "there is already a well known online network of people with 'book' in the brand name. Of course the Teachbook folks are free to create an online network for teachers or whomever, and we wish them well in that endeavour."What they are not free to do is trade on our name or dilute our brand while doing so."Founded in 2004, Facebook is now beingvalued at over $33bn($21bn), while shares in the privately-held company are changing hands for up to $76 each. Its 500 millionth user registered in July this year and its founder, Mark Zuckerberg, has talked confidently of doubling that figure.Tania Clark, trademark partner at the UK intellectual property law firmWithers &amp; Rogers, said Facebook will have a job on its hands if it decides to pursue Teachbook through the court system, given the volume of companies using a variation of the disputed mark."I think they're going to have real difficulty because there are so many companies  – we're talking hundreds – registered in the [trademark] book," Clark told the Guardian."Spa and EasyJet have both been successful in cases similar to this, acting against use of the marks 'spa' and 'easy'. These are big companies and [smaller defendants] just don't want to spend the money whether they feel they're in the right or wrong."Facebook is perfectly entitled to enforce the registration of trademarks – they realise they'll one day want to sell the company," said Clark. "But I believe it will have difficulty enforcing this trademark here – yet 90% of cases like this never make it to the courts as the smaller company caves in."Teachbook registered its trademark for use in online social activity in March 2009. A representative for the site did not respond to a request for comment by time of publication.In a similar case to that being pursued by Facebook, earlier this month it emerged thatbroadcaster BSkyB is embroiled in a five-year long legal battlewith internet telephony company Skype over the use of the mark "sky" in its branding.
Facebook is now being valued at more than $33bn (£21.3bn) as investors try to secure a stake in the social networking site in anticipation of its flotation on the US stock market.The latest data shows that shares in Facebook are changing hands for up to $76 each, more than double their value at the start of this year. While Facebook is still privately held, shareholders are able to sell the company's stock through "secondary market" trading.By buying at these prices, some investors are calculating that Facebook is worth more than eBay or Dell, or nearly twice as much as Yahoo!.Secondary market trading can artificially inflate the value of a private company, as the relative scarcity of its shares may encourage a buyer to overpay. But with founder Mark Zuckerberg thought to be planning to float Facebook in the next couple of years, there is already strong interest in what would be the tech sector's biggest IPO since Google went public six years ago.Facebook is expected toearn around $1.285bn (£824m) of advertising revenue this year, a figure that is tipped to rise sharply to $1.76bn in 2011. It is thought to be profitable, although there is limited information given it is a private company.David Kirkpatrick, author ofThe Facebook Effect, predicted last week that it would be simple for the company to increase profitability, but believes that Zuckerberg is still focused on growth.Technology and internet companies tend to be valued on relatively high "multiples" – the ratio of their market capitalisation to their annual earnings. Apple, for example, was worth $219bn when Wall Street closed last night and is expected to deliver profits of nearly $13bn in 2010. That gives Apple a price-to-earnings ratio of around 17x based on this year's performance. Yahoo has a p/e ratio of almost 22x, while Google's p/e ratio is 19.5x.Facebook's phenomenal growth to date, and the challenge of converting its popularity into revenue, means it is harder to assess the company on these metrics. It attractedits 500 millionth user last month, giving it an unparalleled wealth of social networking activity.It is also benefiting from the smartphone boom – communications regulator Ofcom reported last week that 45% of all mobile internet use in the UK was spent on Facebook.However, it has repeatedly faced criticism over privacy issues, and users may resist efforts to "mine" their personal information so it can be used to drive revenue growth.In 2007, Facebook sold a 1.6% stake to Microsoft for $240m, a deal that valued the whole social networking firm at $15bn. This was after Zuckerberg had rejected a $1bn takeover offer from Yahoo!. He also reportedly rebuffed Microsoft's efforts to buy the whole company.An IPO might not happen until 2012, and some technology analysts believe there is still time for Zuckerberg to receive an offer he cannot refuse."If I was on the board of either Microsoft or Apple, I would seriously consider bidding for Facebook," said Richard Holway, chairman ofTechMarketView. He believes that Facebook, along with Apple, are the two companies that will define the path of the technology and internet sectors through the next few years, and this could encourage another tech giant to swoop."Microsoft could used Facebook as a portal for all their cloud services. They could include MS Office, and a prominent Bing search box," Holway suggested."Apple popularised the app, and Facebook is the most used app of all. Both Facebook and Apple apps bypass Google main revenue stream – sponsored search. Google is the company with the most to fear right now."How the tech giants measure up(market capitalisation based on last night's closing prices)Apple:$219bnMicrosoft:$208bnIBM:$157bnGoogle:$143bnCisco:$120bnIntel:$102bnHewlett-Packard:$89bneBay:$30bnDell:$22bnYahoo:$18bn
Which computer suppliers get the most money from councils? Well, thanks to the coalition government's commitment to more openness from local and central government about its spending, you can find out, thanks to Openly Local, which is painstakingly drawing together the datasets being provided by councils at the urging - or prodding with a big stick - of Eric Pickles, the secretary of state for local government.Looking at theOpenly Local Council Spending Dashboard(motto: "making local government more transparent"), you'll find that it so far has only aggregated data from 24 councils, and it's early days still in terms of the data supplied; councils have only had to provide data (about spending over £500) for a couple of months.That means there's another 500-odd councils which have yet to provide their data for public consumption, so this picture could change quite rapidly.The idea is that by making this data public, you and I and everyone else will be able to find the places where too much money is being spent, or there are inefficiencies: we'll be, in the words of Pickles, "armchair auditors" (not to be confused with Adrian Short's excellentArmchair Auditorsite, which does much the same).So let's have a browse:search for Microsoft, for example, and you find two councils so far: Woking BC and Surrey CC, spending £98,594 and £15,000 each. Sounds reasonable? Well, perhaps, except those are for a single month.How aboutOracle? You'd expect this to be big, because lots of councils use its database for keeping track of spending and so on. And so it proves, with Devon CC having spent £310,000 over two months, and about £550,000 spent over the couple of months' data that seems to be available.AndIBM? Surprisingly small: £2,233 from Islington BC.Oh, all right:Apple. Lots of companies with similar names, but the only visible one is Apple Retail - where Devon CC seems to have gone on a £3,869 splurge. Devon residents, ask your council.You may be able to find IT suppliers which have benefited more from this, but the Microsoft expenditure is certainly surprisingly high. Why, you might ask, don't they move to alternatives - Ubuntu for the OS, OpenOffice for the office suite?Well, it's not that easy: asthis story from Computer Weeklynotes,"The Royal Borough of Windsor &amp; Maidenhead, one of the four "vanguard" councils testing the government's Big Society project, also came to the attention of Microsoft after its IT strategy promised in April to "move away from the Microsoft Office platform and replace it with an open source or cloud alternative"."The council reckoned only 5% of its 2,000 computer-using employees had an "irrefutable" reason to use Microsoft Office. The council reckoned it would thus be able to cut its IT spending by a third - but has run into a problem. A central government problem, as it sees it:"Liam Maxwell, councillor responsible for IT policy at the borough, said the initiative depended on central government mandating the use of open standards in office software."""We are trying out open source. The problem is that Open Document Format (ODF) has not been adopted by the government yet," said Maxwell, who helped draught Conservative technology policy before the election. "Why hasn't ODF been adopted by government?" he said, calling for it to be done."Maxwell says that ODF adoption was a government election pledge, but to be honest, this sounds a bit wet. You don't have to standardise on ODF; the Microsoft formats work perfectly well, and OpenOffice (and Google Docs, and most other online systems too) can read all but the most cutting-edge versions perfectly well in most cases.True, theConservative Technology manifestopromised ""a level playing field for open source IT by implementing open standards across government IT systems". But that doesn't mean ODF, Mr Maxwell.. does it?
Samsung is preparing to launch, of all things, a tablet (actually, slate) computer at the IFA fair in Berlin in a week's time, and has released this teaser video - from which we learn that it's going to be running Android 2.2, and that it will have a 7" screen. (Or "portable screen", as it slightly weirdly puts it.)Other tidbits on offer: "augmented reality, full web browsing, video call, HD movie playback, PC line out, e-reading, navigation" it says (that's all we can spot from the floating graphics.) That clearly means it will need a high-density screen (for the HD playback) and a front-facing camera (for the video calling) and possibly GPS (for the navigation). To do augmented reality, it might also need a rear-facing camera - which is a lot of cameras to pack in.Obviously, there's no mention of price - got to keep something back.Odd how last year nobody was really talking about slates - last year you had to have a netbook to be anyone, it seemed - but that this year everyone seems to be.But here are the questions for you: what price would you buy it for, and is the screen big enough?Data points to consider it against: theiPadstarts at £429 (9" screen, 16GB, but no phone capability or camera), while theDell Streak(5" screen, is a phone, does navigation, uses Android, 16GB) costs, um, £449 (inc VAT).The Galaxy Tab clearly lies in between - so what's the right price, and is it the right size?Update:Electronistahas some video allegedly shot in Sydney, Australia of a rather reluctant-to-discuss user of the machine. You can't see anything of it - all he does is confirm details like "seven inch? ARM-based?" It's said that it was being used by an "anonymous telco worker at a train station". Though this has all the makings too of some viral marketing. Hell, next we'll find that Cat Bin Lady thought the cat was sitting on her Galaxy Tab. Anyhow, here's the video..
First person puzzler titlePortalbasically came out of nowhere to be a huge critical success. So the pressure is on for Portal 2. The developer Valve have just released the latest trailer, complete with voiceover work fromStephen Merchant. Along with his West Country twang the trailer shows off a much prettier looking game than the original. Anyway, take a look. What do you think?
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Join Aleks Krotoski, Charles Arthur and Rick Wray in the studio for a special news-heavy Tech Weekly about online privacy and Net Neutrality.The team debate the implications of the launch of Facebook Places, the new geo-location service offered to the social networking community, and what we've learned from a year of using other, similar apps like Foursquare and Gowalla.On the flipside of the privacy coin, Rick breaks down the latest on the troubles concerning Research in Motion. The Canadian makers of the BlackBerry have come in conflict with governments, including UAE, Saudi Arabia and, most recently, India, who are worried that the device's encryption will disguise terrorist activities. Already, the UAE and Saudi Arabia have banned the BlackBerry; India threatens to do the same by 31 August unless the company change their protocols. Charles offers his insight into the financial implications for RIM if they maintain their stance.Games blogger Keith Stuart fills us in on two stories making waves in that world, including the latest on the comments made by the defence secretary, Liam Fox, about the new Medal of Honour military shooter; is his demand for the game to be banned based on a culture of fear rather than a real assessment of the game? Keith also gives us the latest news on Scottish games company Realtime Worlds, which went into administration this week.Finally, with the help of Desiree Miloshevic, the team tackle the big points of the net neutrality debate, explaining, in small words, what it means for the UK and for the world wide web.All this in 30 minutes of Tech Weekly.
A quick burst of 5 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamPaper.li: Guardian Technology - now available as a newspaper, online! &gt;&gt; PDA blogWe've got paper.li working for us. And you.Apple exec stashed $150K in shoe boxes &gt;&gt; Computerworld"Federal agents found more than $150,000 in cash when they searched the house of Apple manager Paul Devine earlier this month, prosecutors said in court Monday.&#10;&#10;"He had over $150,000 stored in shoe boxes," Department of Justice Attorney Michelle Kane said, as she argued with a defense lawyer over the possible terms of Devine's release. Devine had a further $20,000 worth of foreign currency in his possession, she said, arguing that it was possible that the Apple executive might have other hidden sources of cash.&#10;&#10;"We have identified a significant number of accounts overseas and a significant amount of money," Kane said."&#10;&#10;What do you think he fears more - the interrogation by the police, or by Steve Jobs?Last.fm's Robots.txt &gt;&gt; Last.fmWhen writing these, it's essential to display a sense of humour.Presselite's iTunes 'dirty tricks' campaign targets Malcolm Barclay &gt;&gt; Mobile Industry ReviewDo logos have a "look and feel"?Tweet Button Bookmarklet: Share links from any page to Twitter &gt;&gt; Twitter.com"But what if you go to a site that doesn't have a Tweet Button? Have no fear. Today, we're making available a Tweet Button Bookmarklet that allows you to tweet a link with your own commentary from anywhere on the web. You just need to drag and drop the Bookmarklet into your browser's bookmark bar."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Comments on the earlier article from (indignant) users say that they're sure they haven't been phished for the details of their PayPal accounts - and that someone has somehow been making unauthorised (by them, at least) purchases from the iTunes Store.In theprevious post, I pointed to the greater likelihood that this was the result of a phishing scam; wrongly, I thought that there wasn't a product in the iTunes Store with the given name. Erick Schonfeld of TechCrunch, who wrote theoriginal postthere this morning, points out though that there is indeed a product called "CastleCraft, Dragon Crystals (10000 Pack)": it doesn't show up in a search on the store because it's an in-game purchase.Schonfeld also says that one of the people affected had both the emails from PayPalandthe confirmation email from Apple of the purchases.Here's what's odd about this transaction: who needs (or even wants) $4,700 worth of an in-game purchase for CastleCraft? A few possibilities: (1) kids who just like the idea of being able to mess around, who have iPod Touches/iPhones and want to play (2) people getting kickbacks in some way from the purchase [suspicion would immediately fall on the game maker] (3) some very subtle chargeback method that makes money for scammers (4) a botnet test searching for PayPal accounts linked to iTunes which went a bit wrong. You may be able to think of others.What's interesting is that this has distinct echoes of the case back in July where400 people saw their iTunes accounts hacked- by Thuat Nguyen, who has since been removed from the App Store for violating of the developer terms after his Vietnamese book apps mysteriously skyrocketed up the iTunes charts while people's credit cards were mysteriously billed. At the time,TheNextWeb pointed outthat "the Apple App store is filled with App Farms being used to steal."However, the developer behind CastleCraft isFreeverse, a New York-based company that one wouldn't think of as being in any way linked to an "app farm".Now on to the comments - but first, thesuggestion by Bert9000about how one might get access to an iTunes or PayPal account.People and websites are so lax with personal details, and many do silly things like use the same password for everything.So here's a scenario:You have email account x@y.com, which is your main email. You have the password XYZ, which you use for everything. You register at paypal with your email address x@y.com and use your normal password. You then register at some obscure webforum using your normal email and password.Obscure webforum keeps new member details in plain text on their site. Hacker hits obscure webforum and takes thousands of email addresses and site passwords. Hacker then feeds these emails and passwords into paypal, a good proportion of which will actually work.That's a very good description of the sort of weakness that crops up all the time in how we use passwords and websites. (If you've been affected by this iTunes hack, does that scenario fit you?)Dr The0p0liswrote:Yesterday afternoon I noticed a few emails from PayPal re iTunes purchases. Looking at one, I saw that it was for $211.00. Upon checking my iTunes account (via my desktop iTunes client) I found that a number of purchases had been made. All of them were legitimate apps, but not ones I had purchased. Another charge came through for approximately $50 in apps, and another one for a similar amount. All of them registered as purchases under my iTunes account. All of them were for legitimate apps. Upon alerting PayPal, deautorizing/suspending my iTunes account, and asking my bank to refuse all PayPal charges until it was straightened out, the purchases stopped. So no, these were not spoofed to look like iTunes purchases. They were iTunes purchases.Similar for SusanMiniCooper: "This occurred after I had hooked my itunes over to paypal. I got two transactions that I did not make. I have now reset my account and removed all automatic payment options." (That's very wise.)Can't argue with that; at the time of writing the first blogpost, that level of detail wasn't available.But the twin puzzles remain: where did the details come from? And what were the fake buyers after? In the case of Dr The0p0lis, who saw different purchases, the latter question seems easily answered: they wanted some apps. (You don't have to authorise your iPhone/iPod Touch against a computer for over-the-air purchases; the apps might get deleted the next time the person synchronised their machine, but as they cost them nothing, they probably wouldn't care.) His suggestion that the people behind this aregriefersmight be close to the truth.And the other one: how are they getting at peoples' iTunes accounts? Has a giant security hole opened up in the iTunes Store? This still looks hugely unlikely. The PayPal element in common here is intriguing - though possibly that's now the simplest line of attack, because credit card purchases over a certain value might require the card verification number (which the scammer won't have), whereas the PayPal purchase is automatic.One other point: Jared Earle has checked and verified that iTunes authentication uses HTTPS (which means that even if you accessed the iTunes Store via a fake Wi-Fi setup using a man-in-the-middle attack, the attacker wouldn't get any of your details - sorry @hellroy, but your account was hacked some other way).The question thus remains of how the scammers got the login details. There we can only ask you, if you were affected: is your iTunes login and password unique? Ever used it anywhere else?The solid conclusion: it's a really, really good idea to prevent automatic payments using your iTunes account - and other accounts, come to that - to Paypal or other payment systems.
Regular readers will know that Gamesblog occasionally covers digital and interactive art installations – just because we're the Guardian and can get away with that sort of thing.So here are three upcoming exhibitions and events that may be of interest to gamers. They include digital slingshots, hacked toys and thereaputic robots, so practically all interests are covered...Come on, you can't sit in front of Demon's Soulsindefinitely. Switch it off for a day and come and see some art/robots!Robot TherapyScience Museum, London– August 25-27Okay, not strictly anything to do with games, but this exhibition does have a robot and that's the next best thing.KASPARis apparently a new child-like humanoid 'bot created by scientists at the University of Hertfordshire, to aid children suffering from autism. It's part of the widerRobot Cubproject which is carrying out cognitive research through the use of robotic systems.But if that's not the droid you're looking for, the exhibition will also feature Phantom, a force feedback device that lets users to touch objects in the virtual world, and IROMEC, a robotic toy for children with disabilities.The Media Facades Festival 2010FACT, Liverpool– August 27 - October 3This excellent gallery has played host to several major digital art exhibitions and installations over the last few years, and here's the latest.Media Facadesis a joint project with galleries in Berlin, Brussels, Helsinki, Budapest, Linz and Madrid. The programme, featuring works bytenantspin, Julius Popp andGiants of the Hoodsis to be broadcast via the giant urban screens cropping up in many major city centres, and will feature lots of interactive content. One intriguing element, named SMS Slingshot, takes place in RopeWalks Square on August 27, and allows passers-by to use a slingshot-style controller to type out messages, then 'catapult' them onto a giant display (see image). The resulting phrases will also be visible on screens in all the participating European city centres, allowing for some cross-cultural digital graffiti exchanges. Sounds risky.Unleashed DevicesWaterman Arts Centre, Brentford – September 3 - October 22Curated by Irini Papadimitriou, head of New Media Arts Development at Watermans andTint, Unleashed Devices brings together students, hackers, designers and artists in an unusual exhibition of interactive sculptures, modified electronic toys and other hacked, mashed and open source works. From the press release: "The projects combine artistic communication with science and technology, robotics, computer vision, physical modelling and psychedelic manipulation techniques... This event will showcase the GDS potential for transdisciplinary experimentations to a wide audience in the context of a major public contemporary art exhibition dedicated to new practices."  You had me at 'Psychedelic manipulation techniques'...
Update:based on some of the comments here, it's clear that there have been purchases made very recently on the iTunes Store which have used people's login details - though apparently all linked to PayPal accounts. See thefollow-on post for more on this - and what the scammers' motives might be. In the meantime, the opening of this article isn't supported by the facts we now know, so we'll strike it out.Phishers have figured out a new way to transfer themselves loads of money and make it look legit: make it look like the charges are coming from the iTunes Store.Problem is that they seem to have gotten greedy, which has made their greed surface. There's a scattering of reports that iTunes accounts have been hacked - hello TechCrunch, with "Fraudsters Drain PayPal Accounts Through iTunes", which says (a trifle breathlessly) that:"Reports are appearing this morning about a major security hole in iTunes accounts linked to PayPal. At least one group of scammers has found a way to charge thousands of dollars to iTunes accounts through PayPal. One targeted customer told us, 'My account was charged over $4,700. I called security at PayPal and was told a large number of iTunes store accounts were compromised.'"Look more closely, though, and it doesn't quite add up. Yes, people have seen their PayPal accounts drained of funds. Yes, they have received emails which say "Receipt for your payment to iTunes Store".But that's where you have to look more closely. If you buy stuff on the iTunes Store via PayPal, the email subject line doesn't read like that. As Mark Derricknotes, it will read "Receipt for your payment to iTunes". Small difference, but significant.Plus: the people who were scammed say that the receipt claims it was for the purchase (at $99.99 a time - clever one by the scammers, aiming to get it underneath the credit card "suspicion" level and also below the automatic level where the merchant has to bear the cost of reversing the payment) of "CastleCraft, Dragon Crystals (10000 Pack), Seller: Freeverse, Inc)".Except that while the US store (the only one which allows payment via PayPal) does haveCastleCraft(iTunes link), which does come from Freeverse, there's no product called "Dragon Crystals" and they don't come in 10,000 packs.So - a non-existent product and an email subject line that wasn't generated by the iTunes Store. Conclusion: transaction not done via iTunes.John Paczkowski at AllThingsD offersmuch the same conclusion:"not much to their assertion that Apple is at fault here. There's no security hole in iTunes, and if you've been unfortunate enough to havehundreds of dollars in unauthorized purchases charged to your iTunes account,it's likely because you've fallen victim to a bot attack or phishing scam –a variation on the one that's been around for years now. Sources close to Apple tell me iTunes has not been compromised and the company isn't aware of any sudden increase in fraudulent transactions.".The conclusion: iTunes hasn't been cracked. PayPal has - or more precisely, some of its users have. This is almost certainly due to phishing where people have given up their passwords by being lured onto fake sites that have asked for their PayPal logins and passwords and got them. The crooks got greedy, which has meant that they got noticed; we can hope that PayPal, which goes to a lot of effort to track down organised scams like this, will put it all right.Among those who fell victim wasDennis Rockstroh of the San Jose Mercury News; Apple told him that "Among other new security measures iTunes now requires more frequent re-entry of a customer's credit card security code. But if your credit card or iTunes password is stolen and used on iTunes, we recommend that you contact your financial institution and inquire about canceling the card and issuing a charge-back for any unauthorized transactions. We also recommend that you change your iTunes account password immediately." (What's odd about Rockstroh's account is that he says he contacted Apple, which reversed the transactions - however those were made against credit cards, not PayPal accountThat goes of course for PayPal - though there's no obvious mechanism by which scammers could use your iTunes account to make payments to themselves to PayPal. (Is there?) Even so, the rule remains: be absolutely sure before you enter critical data such as your username and password onto any site.
Doctor Who fans will have two new video game adventures to look forward to this winter. BBC Worldwide has just announced Doctor Who: Evacuation Earth for the Nintendo DS handheld console, and Doctor Who: Return to Earth for Wii. No game play details are available yet, but it seems the titles will be family-focused and will feature both the Doctor and his companion Amy Pond. The box art suggests that while Evacuation Earth will centre around the Daleks, Return to Earth is set to feature the Cybermen.The games are being developed by British studioAsylum Entertainment, a specialist in licensed content. The company has previously worked on game versions of TV favourites such as Peppa Pig and Scooby Doo.The BBC's series of free online titles,Doctor Who: the Adventure Gameshas been a huge success attracting millions of downloads for the first two episodes. It's not clear yet whether the DS and Wii versions will follow a similar style of adventure gameplay.Certainly, the Wii console will offer some new control possibilities to wannabe Time Lords. The Wii Remote control is bound to make the perfect – yes – sonic screwdriver...
There's a moment in Mafia 2 where, mid-conversation with one of the game's plethora of forgettable mob bosses, the camera pans down to reveal that, during the entire exchange, he was being fellated by a surprisingly chuffed-looking prostitute.Is this a laudable attempt at adding a touch of grittiness to an adult game? Or a crass inclusion that spoils an overwhelmingly classy experience? The tone of the game treads such a fine line between the two poles that you're never really sure what its developers 2K Czech were really trying to accomplish – or whether they were even sure themselves.Your story follows Vito Scarletta, a fresh-faced Italian-American stereotype back from the second world war and out to climb his way up the greaseball greasy pole of organised crime. The plot's roughly split into four parts, and spans two decades within the game's New York-style setting, Empire City.The presentation is simply flawless. The feel of an American city during the period is captured perfectly, and at times it's tempting just to stop dead in the street, turn up the car radio, and spin the camera around to soak in the absurdly high production values.In terms of authenticity, this is to gangster films what Red Dead Redemption was to westerns, and then some. The script, voice acting and score really wouldn't seem out of place up on the big screen, and the cutscenes are never dull.The use of licensed 1940s and 1950s music too is a masterstroke, and not only makes some of the relatively drawn-out driving sequences far more enjoyable, but also works to highlight how America changed during the timespan of the game's narrative.Still, as gorgeous an experience as Mafia 2 is, this high watermark of quality is often only skin deep. As your wisecracking buddy Joe puts it in one scene, in many ways the game has "champagne tastes, but beer pockets".First off, the action is pretty much as linear as an open-world game possibly could be. Missions run consecutively and, while this does aid the pacing of the plot, it's a shame to have such a beautifully crafted world but no real incentive to explore it.Even minor interactions have a rigid structure to them. I pre-empted one cutscene-prompted fight by simply shooting my opponent before he had a chance to square up to me. Rather than lead to a different outcome, or suggest that I retry the stage, the game simply glitched out – it really isn't happy when you try and make the decisions.Rather than being a sandbox game at all, Mafia 2 is just a simple mix of driving, shooting and hand-to-hand-combat stages, with some travelling time in between to give you the illusion of freedom. Good fun these stage may be, with solid design and mechanics, but gamers expecting Goodfellas Theft Auto will be sorely disappointed.The tone of the game too, as mentioned previously, seems somehow off. The plot strives to be taken seriously, but for every charming or humorous moment there's another that doesn't seem to quite sit right.At one point you wander up to a sleeping guard and I had no idea whether Vito would tiptoe past him, silently knock him out, or stab him repeatedly in the throat, so little consistency is there in the game's violence or rhetoric.Your character, too, is strangely blank and two-dimensional, and what with the game's hit-and-miss facial animations you're unlikely to care too much about what happens to you, or your associates.Most would agree as well that, at 10 to 12 hours to completion, this is a pretty short release by today's standards. You may want to replay some of the more memorable missions, or explore a bit more to pick up all the game's absurd and anachronistic Playboy cards, but beyond these meagre pleasures there's little on offer once you've finished.Despite these flaws, Mafia 2 was a short but sweet experience I enjoyed immensely. The tone is uneven, but you could well say that this is how a game based on organised crime should be – a glamorous veneer covering a seedy and unpleasant interior. The most isn't made of the game's breathtaking mise-en-scene – but it's still somewhere I'd strongly urge you to visit.
Cat Fightis the latest free-to-play browser title from prolific casual games developerArkadium. It's a stylish, amusing and clever combination of Puzzle Quest and the tower defence genre, in which players take control of a cat army as it battles an evil feline opponent. In each bout you must build your four resources by successfully playing a standard 'match three' puzzle game; when there are enough materials available, you can build various catty battle units to deploy at your rival's castle.The visuals have a wonderfully observed mid-eighties feel – all blocky sprites and garish primary colours. There are also some great jokes as the cat kings taunt each other across the screen via short speech bubbles ("I can has your kingdom" has been one of my favourite examples).A must-try game, then, and one that has quite an interesting development story. Before the game was released, the development team went out onto the streets of New York with a laptop and asked passers-by to play the game for a few minutes in exchange for five dollars. Apparently, more than 50 people played the game and offered comments, which were used to tweak the design.The fundamental lesson could probably be applied across the entire video game spectrum. "No one reads anything," says Tom Rassweiler, manager of game development. "We couldn't rely on players reading help text even if it was in very short bites at appropriate times. I watched a player who clearly did not know what he was doing, randomly clicking around. A tip came up basically saying, 'Hey, I see you are randomly clicking around. You should swap tiles here,' and without even reading it he closed it!"This experience wasn't unique and the team found that players were having trouble with even the very easiest levels. In the end they created a complete tutorial level, which illustrated the entire game mechanic in bite-sized interactive chunks.It will be interesting to see if this fast, efficient and very literal form of crowd-sourcing catches on. These days, game designers – especially those in the casual and social sectors – are having to find ways to engage with much wider demographics far beyond the traditional gamer base. Focus groups are the traditional solution, but these can be time-consuming to set up, and it's expensive to employ a specialist focus testing company. Running out into the street with a laptop and a fistful of cash is the ever-so-zeitgeist-friendly guerrilla equivalent...
Audioboois brewing a new feature that will let users send private messages to each other - like Twitter's direct messages, but audio. Destination: Massive.Describing it as a social answerphone,Audioboothinks it should be ready for release next month. When it does launch (Audioboo is finishing it as we write), users will see an inbox for their private messages and will be able to send a private message to any other Audioboo user. Presumably the 'block' feature comes later.The advantage over an actual voicemail message is much like the advantage of sending a DM onTwitter; you don't need their mobile number. You just need to be both using the service. Audioboo also keeps your messages stored, unlike your mobile operator, along with your geo-location data and any associated imagery, file names and so on.Thinking about how Audioboo is used and what it plugs into gets very interesting. If you're not in a position to type a message, you can record and send a boo instead. There's a five minute limit (though a planned pro version would allow you more) - but five minutes of audio is a lot more message than 140 characters.The fruits of Audioboo's partnership with Pure radios (Pure was one company behindAudioboo's recent funding) could also be interesting. Next month the first Pure connected radios will include Audioboo in their digital menu. That means you could record an Audioboo mesage on your radio and, like Audioboo chief executiveMark Rocksays, send it to your Gran. Who's obviously an Audioboo user."It's difficult to actually talk to people you've connected to on social networks since you rarely know their telephone number. What private boos allow you to do is simply to connect to them via voice, which is often a much richer experience than text. When you add in the location and image data we provide, then we think private boos are going to be a really interesting way for people to stay in touch."Eventually, users will receive a notification on whatever device they use when a DM arrives, which means the mobile apps will be updated soon after launch. And where does this lead? Think beyod voicemail. This gets interesting if you think about the one-to-many modle on Twitter, where we want to follow interesting people. Audioboo's direct messages will be about receiving personalised audio from brands or popular channels."The core central concept behind this is the personalisation of audio - something that radio or broadcast services currently do very badly," said Rock."It's a fan club approach. Subscribe (possibly for a fee) toStephen Fry's Audioboosand get personal messages from him, which may be general to his subscribers or, potentially, a birthday message just for you alone."You read it here first. In the meantime, click through for a map of theInternational Nation of Boo:Audioboo map
Mobile users in the UK, Europe and Middle East can now access an HTML5 version of Google's YouTube video site, speeding up access for those accessing it via iPhones, Android or other mobile devices with browsers able to render HTML5 video content.The launch comes as mobile use of the web is growing rapidly: Google says that YouTube's mobile site,m.youtube.com, gets more than 100m video playbacks a day – roughly the number of daily views youtube.com was getting when being acquired by Google in 2006 – and every minute an hour of video is uploaded to the site from a mobile device. Mobile video playback also grew by 160% in 2009 on the previous year, along with an increase in adoption of devices able to stream video.The US version of the HTML5 site for mobiles was launched last month.Across Europe, the Middle East and Africa, the UK consumes the most YouTube videos on mobile devices, followed by France, Italy, Netherlands and Switzerland.The original mobile version of YouTube launched in 2007, but relied on versions of Adobe's Flash for playback – which was too taxing for most devices. Since then, the development of the HTML5 web standard, and of mobile browsers – notably WebKit, used by Apple in the iPhone, iPod Touch and iPad, and by Google in Android – able to play back embedded video content using the H.264 codec, rather than Flash's usual Sorensen or VP6 codecs, has meant that HTML5 video use has become feasible.Google says the decision has been driven by the dramatic growth in mobile access to YouTube, which is more than doubling every year.Several short-form video sites are building players in HTML5: Vimeo brought out a hybrid HTML5 version of its player earlier this month, designed for better mobile playback. But when US-only TV and movie streaming site Hulu unveiled a major revamp of its display earlier this year, it did so using Adobe Flash,sayingHTML5 "doesn't meet our customers' needs".The use of HTML5 does not mean that Flash is shut out of YouTube's mobile version: Adobe's product can encode video in H.264 as well. But the growing use of desktop browsers such as Google's Chrome and Apple's Safari, which can render H.264 video – and with the forthcoming Internet Explorer 9 also offering it – poses a long-term question about Flash's continued widespread use.Brightcove, the video hosting service for many media organisations, began offering an HTML5 version of its site in March this year. The New York Times and Time Inc were among the first media outlets to integrate it – allowing playback on Apple's popular mobile devices, which do not use Flash.Closer to home, Erik Huggers, director of BBC future media &amp;  technology, recently defended the corporation from accusations that its widespread use of Flash – on the iPlayer, in particular – betrayed a commitment to open standards."Our use of Flash is not a case of BBC favouritism, rather it currently happens to be the most efficient way to deliver a high quality experience to the broadest possible audience," Huggers said, adding: "The fact is that there's still a lot of work to be done on HTML5 before we can integrate it fully into our products. As things stand I have concerns about HTML5's ability to deliver on the vision of a single open browser standard which goes beyond the whole debate around video playback."Though the BBC does deliver H.264-encoded video to Apple mobile devices, it does not do that for Android devices, citing concerns about copying of content via the Android platform, and instead serves Flash-based video to them.However YouTube has said that HTML5 is still some way from becoming the new standard for streaming long-form video content, such as BBC iPlayer content. "While HTML5's video support enables us to bring most of the content and features of YouTube to computers and other devices that don't support Flash Player, it does not yet meet all of our needs," said John Hardin, software engineer at YouTube, ina blogpostpublished in June. "Today, Adobe Flash provides the best platform for YouTube's video distribution requirements, which is why our primary video player is built with it."Microsoft has put its eggs in the HTML5 basket with next year's release of its internet Explorer 9 browser. Ryan Gavin, Microsoft's senior director of internet Explorer,said in May this year: "We're all in on HTML5. We've been co-chairing the HTML5 working group, and we're actually leading the HTML5 testing group."
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
A quick burst of 4 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team.World's biggest computer makers of 2009 - if we include smartphones &gt;&gt; Tomi AhonenFrom April, a perspective on "market share" if you define smartphones as "personal computers", from a former Nokia executive. Non-Windows OSs make up about 24% by his numbers. (Thanks toFKafkafor the link.)Slow PC sales raise fears over tech recovery &gt;&gt; Financial Times"Weaker-than-expected consumer PC sales at the start of the back-to-school shopping season in the US are casting doubt on the sustainability of the technology sector recovery and may force computer makers to slash prices"What Intel's McAfee acquisition means for Identity &gt;&gt; Gartner"Intel may one day go further and sell locked down browsing launched from a 'secure chip' environment – which may keep bad guys from taking over good users' machines' browsers. We'll have to wait and see. In the meantime, there are a few good client-device-identification solutions sold today that don't require tagging a user's PC – either with software or via hardware. And they have certainly been effective at helping prevent fraud, although they can be rendered useless by man-in-the-browser attacks that take over seemingly 'good' PCs."CSS3.0 Maker &gt;&gt; CSS3.0 GeneratorCan't remember the browser-specific code you need for Opera to do a CSS3 text rotation? Want to get the transition code? Here you go. Wonderful resource for those shifting towards the HTML5/CSS3 world. Only works in HTML5-compatible browsers, of course.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
When you next find  yourself gnawing on your steering wheel  as the vehicles ahead of you  concertina into a wall of metal, spare a thought for the drivers  currently stuck in one of the  longest traffic jams in history.Thousands of drivers on the Beijing-Tibet Expressway just outside the Chinese capital have been snared by roadworks ever since 14 August – and the disruption is expected to last a further month. The tailbacks now stretch for a mind-boggling 100km and 400 police officers have been assigned to the area to quell rising tensions, with impromptu vendors said to be charging exorbitant prices for tea and noodles. Meanwhile, drivers resigned to their fate are reported to be passing the time with games of chess or cards. Some have requested concerts be performed on roadside verges.Road-weary residents of Sao Paolo are similarly resourceful in dealing with their regular mega-jams, which are said to be the worst in the world. Men shave, women apply makeup, couples canoodle and the thirsty simply lock their car doors and head to the nearest cafe.The AA says such jams are mercifully rare in the UK, with a channel port disruption being its "very worst nightmare". But we are prone to the odd "perfect storm", says a spokesman. One such incident, now dubbed "the Prat" by the motoring organisation (after the individual who caused the "totally avoidable" snarl-up), occurred in 2006 when a lorry driver hit a ventilation fan in the Dartford tunnel on the M25, causing the east tunnel to close for nine hours.A more recent example hit the M11 in January, when a snowstorm trapped drivers for more than 20 hours. "The biggest  lesson from this incident was for people to remain in their cars and check traffic reports," says the AA spokesman. "It was people abandoning their cars that aggravated the situation. We issue the standard advice: always carry water and food with you, and make sure your mobile is topped up."Keeping calm and relaxed when caught in a jam is a skill few have ever mastered, but the hypnotist Paul McKenna recommends an exercise called the "calm anchor". "Remember a time when you felt really, really calm – at peace and in control," he writes in Control Stress. "Return to it now, seeing what you saw, hearing what you heard and feeling how good you felt." Or if all else fails, just do as a cab driver would: tune into Magic FM.
Someone tagged this place as 'Wimbledon' - which it isn't - on Facebook on 29 June. But who?Were you in a pub in Tower Hill on the afternoon of Tuesday 29 June? Did you see someone furtively updating their mobile phone as the TV in the corner showed the Wimbledon match between Kim Clijsters and Vera Zvonareva? Then you probably saw a Facebook employee trying out its new Places product, months ahead of its launch.There is some speculation that the person who posted the update - which appears as a neat little map - might have been Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg. Certainly some of the timing fits, as Arun Stephens (who seems to have been the first to spot this)points out in a blog post:"Facebook Places has been in development foraround 8 months, but I've found evidence (for want of a better word) that it has been working, outside the US, at least since June, when several Facebookers were in London, for ahack dayand a special edition of theFacebook Developer Garage."He continues:"I've been working out ofTechHub[Facebook Place] this week, and there were four Places in the area. One was theBarbican Centre, which was where the Facebook Developer Garage was. Another was labeled "Wimbledon" but was in fact probably a pub near Tower Hill. Whoever was at that pub that day was watching Clijsters versus Zvonareva, which puts it a week after the Facebook event at the Barbican. TheSouth Bank Centrewas also visited (spelt with English spelling, rather than American, too). Another wasarjunabeats."You may have spotted the weakness in his argument: Zuckerberg wasn't in the UK for a whole week. He's a busy guy, people to see, gigantic social networks to build, that sort of thing. And Facebook has pointed out that "Place has been in beta test for all Facebook employees for a while, not just US ones" - which means that the person who was watching that tennis match probably wasn't Zuckerberg, but instead was one of the UK staff of the company.But the idea that you might stalk Zuckerberg (the - shocking! - only person on Facebook you can't block) gets a little extra piquancy with the warning from Sophos that geo-encoded data in those pictures you put online could aid stalkers. AsGraham Cluley explains, many photos taken by GPS-enabled smartphones will contain location data in the metadata of the picture. "The location data isn't visible to the naked eye in the photo, it's embedded as encoded meta-data inside the picture, alongside information about what type of camera was used, camera settings, and so forth. That means, anyone who accesses your digital photos can (if you haven't wiped the location meta-data) work out where you were when you take the snapshot. And as many people upload their pictures virtually instantly to Twitter via services like TwitPic, someone could find out where you are even if you had no intention of sharing that information with the world."That's the warning thatI Can Stalk U, another "scary them into understanding it" site, tries to make real. (Though note that it says: "We do not stalk anyone, nor do we wish anyone be stalked.") It scans Twitter and services like Twitpic and picks out the metadata, and then displays it on the site. The reminder: putting too much information about your location can be risky, even if you hadn't thought of it in that way. And if you need a reminder, or just missed it during the holidays, can we point you to Leo Hickman's piece about location and cyberstalking, "How I became a FourSquare cyberstalker" - though you don't need that particular location service to do it.The fact that Places aren't immediately tied to particular people may be one of its benefits - but some people are rushing headlong into geolocation because the technology enables it, without quite considering the full extent of the risks involved. Like every technology in the past, social networking has been blamed for enabling people to do harm; it would be nice, if perhaps optimistic, to think that we'll be more careful with geolocation.
Medal of Honor publisher Electronic Arts has hit back atcalls made by defence secretary Liam Foxfor the first-person shooter game to be banned. Fox has objected to elements of the online multiplayer mode, which allows participants in the Afghanistan-based title to control Taliban fighters as they attack allied forces."Medal of Honor is an 18-rated highly authentic depiction of the soldier's experience in Afghanistan – matching US forces against the Taliban in today's war," said a spokesperson for the company."Multi-player combat is a long-standing, common and popular feature of videogames. In multi-player, teams assume the identities of combatants on both sides of the conflict. Many popular videogames allow players to assume the identity of enemies including Nazis and terrorists. In the multi-player levels of Medal of Honor, teams will assume the identity of both US forces and the Taliban."The publisher also hit out at inaccurate press reports concerning the Medal of Honor content. According to EA, both the Sunday Times and the Daily Mail implied that players would be able to shoot and kill British soldiers – in fact, no British forces are depicted in the game.Earlier this week, the head of EA Games, Frank Gibeau, criticised the media's negative reaction to the game. Inan intervew with games industry news site, Develophe said: "At EA we passionately believe games are an artform, and I don't know why films and books set in Afghanistan don't get flack, yet [games] do. Whether it's Red Badge Of Courage or The Hurt Locker, the media of its time can be a platform for the people who wish to tell their stories. Games are becoming that platform."He cites the fact that Medal of Honor was developed in close consultation with the US military as a touchstone for the game's authenticity. The developers interviewed members of the special ops outfit featured throughout the single-player campaign and many of the action sequences are based on real-life instances from the conflict.When the Guardian Gamesblog spoke to the game's producer, Greg Goodrich, earlier this year he said, "Medal of Honor has always been about authenticity and respect, and telling the soldiers' story. First and foremost this is a story about individuals, a cast of characters. For us to properly honour this community we have to be respectful and truthful – but it's a historical fiction, much like Saving Private Ryan. This medium is completely viable to tell these stories."Most video game news sites agree that there is a debate to be had about EA's decision to set a big budget mainstream shooter in a current conflict. And doubtless the publisher will relish – and make the most of – the publicity this story has generated, which will make many industry observers uncomfortable.But if Fox is hoping to stir up, or tap into, a swell of public opinion against the game, it seems as though he will be disappointed. Although most major stores have yet to comment officially, independent online retailer Shoptohas saidthat it intends to stock the title, unless there is official government policy on the matter. Most others will doubtless follow suit.In a country where,according to a surveylast year, one third of the population now consider themselves gamers, it might be difficult to stir up mass indignation. Interestingly, theDaily Mail's coverage of the story, beneath a provocative headline reading, "'Tasteless': Defence Secretary's fury at Taliban video game where players shoot dead British soldiers", has yet to receive a single comment. And last year, Modern Warfare 2 was heavily criticised for the inclusion of a mission in which the player is able to gun down civilians in an airport. That title hasjust becomethe biggest selling game in UK history.
Flat-rate mobile data tariffs look like an endangered species in the US and Europe. Mobile operators say that the all-you-can-eat model is damaging their ability to increase their revenues, and that the cost of building next-generation networks and providing the backbone capacity for the data is a "critical challenge".In asurvey for the law firm Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringerby the Economist Intelligence Unit, the majority of mobile operators in the US and Europe also say they want to charge to prioritise the delivery of network traffic – which would do away with the principle of net neutrality on wireless networks.And, fearful that handset makers and companies such as Apple, Google, Nokia and BlackBerry maker RIM will reap all the benefits from selling downloadable phone apps, nearly 80% of mobile operators told the EIU that they would benefit from opening their platforms to independent software developers, with 45% believing they should open their own "app stores" to compete with those like Apple's iPhone App Store and Google's Android Marketplace and Nokia's Ovi Store.Apps are becoming increasingly important to handset makers as a means of distinguishing themselves, but operators have seen little benefit from them. Instead, apps usually lead to greater data use from smartphones – but on flat-rate data tariffs, that simply means greater costs for the network operator.Ofcom figures from the first quarter of 2010 show that 18% of the UK population user their mobile handset to access the internet. That is expected to increase alongside purchases of smartphones.Executives expect the downloading of applications to outweigh income generated from voice calls by 2013, and 55% of those surveyed said they should be allowed to recoup some of the money invested in enabling this increasing usage of data.In the US, AT&amp;T signalled the end of flat-rate data tariffs for iPhone users in June, shifting to a model where owners could get up to 2 gigabytes of data per month on standard contracts. In the UK, the four main operators this summer also ended flat-rate tariffs for iPhone owners which were introduced in 2007 when the device was launched.As the number of smartphones being used has grown, so have the demands on networks' data backbones, which have struggled to keep up, while networks have been hampered by flat-rate data tariffs which they introduced to tempt people to use their services – and then found were taken up so eagerly that the systems struggled to fulfil demand.Current regulation stipulates that no preferential treatment is given to data carried over networks, but the increase in usage of applications, video streaming and internet-connected gaming has meant operators have had to invest in ways of delivering data to users.Proposals recently laid out by Google and US telecom Verizon left room for wireless, mobile networks to be able to discriminate in how they deliver content, saying that the future internet will largely be wireless and shouldn't be bound to rules governing the internet of today.Last week private discussions were held in the US between lobbyists – thought to include Yahoo and Microsoft – to try come to an agreement on how to manage internet traffic, following the breakdown of net neutrality talks held by the country's Federal Communications Commission (FCC).&bull; One of the UK's smaller internet service providers, Demon, today unveiled a new broadband package charging customers £3 extra per month for the prioritised delivery of gaming traffic over its network.
Parents may be reaching the stage at which they balk at buying new items of video gaming hardware for their children – on space grounds alone, given the recent proliferation in plastic musical instruments, balance boards, motion-sensing input devices, dance-mats and the like. But THQ, apparently, is confident there's room for more games-related clutter: it showed an interesting tablet drawing device for the Wii at Gamescom, called the uDraw, and we managed to have a go on it.It's also the sort of object that parents would applaud, as it lets their offspring do something on their Wiis that is actually productive: learning to draw and paint. And it's a pretty neat piece of kit, about 20cm square and 4cm deep, it's finished in the same plastic as the Wii and its controllers, and accommodates a slot for a Wii Remote. It's also likely to be pretty cheap – we were quoted in the region of £50 – thanks to Nintendo which, when it heard of THQ's determination to make the uDraw, involved the same manufacturers that make the Wii.Attached to the uDraw by a thin cable (it clips into the underside like the Wii Remote) is a chunky, pencil-shaped stylus, with a pressure-sensitive tip. And that's all there is to it: it operates exactly like the Wacom tablets used by architects and their ilk and, indeed, THQ maintains that it contains pretty much the same chip as a much more professional drawing tablet.When it launches, three games will be available designed specifically to work with uDraw, although only one will be bundled with it – uDraw Studio. Unsurprisingly, it's a pretty bog-standard painting and drawing package, with a bright, cartoonish interface, designed to be thoroughly unintimidating, especially for kids, uDraw's target audience. We reckon it's more powerful than it looks, though. It contains plenty of tutorials on the basics of drawing, different painting techniques (you can select virtual oils, watercolours and so on), and lets you pick different virtual surfaces on which to paint (wood, canvas and so on), and even has a Pantone colour-picker. THQ showed usa video featuring a guy called David Kassan– a YouTube painting phenomenon – in which it gave him a uDraw and filmed him using it to paint a facial portrait of a life-model, with extremely impressive results.The second game for it is called Dude's Big Adventure, which is a platform-style game in which you need to draw objects to take out enemies and progress through each level – fairly standard fare for those who own Nintendo DSes. And there will also be a version of Pictionary on sale at launch. Both games, and future games for uDraw, will be priced at around £20 each. No launch date has yet been set in stone, but it should arrive around February 2011. It will also let kids save their lovingly created artworks to an SD card in the Wii's rarely used SD card slot, and because it can hold a Wii Remote, it has all that controller's motion-sensing abilities, which will surely be exploited in future uDraw games.The uDraw is by no means an earth-shatteringly clever input device like Microsoft's Kinect, and it would never make any grandiose claims about changing the face of gaming or whatever, but it should prove pretty attractive to parents worried about their offspring spending all day in front of their Wiis without achieving anything concrete, and particularly those who want to encourage an interest in painting. Look out for it early next year.
There's no avoiding that fact thatThe Last Airbender is, by all accounts, a rubbish film. The source material is, however, great video game fodder – in fact,the series already appeared on the Wiilong before M Night Shyamalan got in on the act. Fighting, fireballs, hokey Eastern mysticism – all good stuff.You control one of three Benders (ahem), each of whom has different powers and individual fighting styles. Gameplay takes the form of a third-person action-adventure, negotiating simple puzzles and hordes of grunts, with the odd platforming challenge thrown in for good measure.The Last AirbenderCombat is surprisingly satisfying — it's no Arkham Asylum, but stringing combos together and shaking the Wiimote when prompted to trigger special attacks is really quite fun. Meanwhile, ranged attacks can be used to break through barriers and explode conveniently-placed TNT barrels.Pacing and level design too is, on the whole, relatively accomplished and well thought-out, giving you just enough variety to keep things from getting stale.Every so often the game switches into first-person mode, as you send streams of fireballs hurtling towards hordes of onrushing enemies. It's pretty unremarkable FPS fare, but a pleasing diversion nonetheless.Graphics-wise The Last Airbender is no great shakes, even for a Wii game, thought the stylised comicbook cutscenes are very easy on the eye.The Last AirbenderThe limited capabilities of Nintendo's console meant the game's designers were always facing an uphill challenge recreating the film's universe, but, with the help of some natty sound effects, they've at least made a decent stab of it.Sadly, the short length of the game critically undermines what is, on the whole, a pretty polished outing. Five to six hours to completion for a full-priced release is pretty poor value for money by anyone's standards. In-game achievements and unlockable film-related items encourage replay but, as ever, these will only interest die-hard fans.It's a real shame as The Last Airbender is solid, simple fun, especially if you're one of the handful of people that enjoyed the film.Whether the game was rushed to coincide for the film's release, or the developers spent so long giggling at its title that they didn't have time to code a few extra levels, something that can be finished in a couple of evenings is probably best avoided until it arrives in the bargain bins, no matter how diverting it is.
BioWare seems to be launching a bid for the title of hardest-working developer in the world. As well as honing the hugely ambitious MMO Star Wars: The Old Republic, and maintaining the Mass Effect franchise with downloadable content (and the as-yet unannounced Mass Effect 3 – BioWare's boss, Ray Muzyka, has said that the franchise will take the form of a trilogy), it is hard at work readying Dragon Age II, the followup to the enormously popular RPG Dragon Age: Origins, in time for next March.AtGamescom, we didn't manage to get our hands on Dragon Age II, but did avail ourselves of a lengthy demo played through by BioWare. BioWare's David Silverman took the controls, explaining the game's background before launching into the play-through. He said: "Dragon Age: Origins was the most successful new product in the history of both BioWare and EA, so we asked ourselves 'How do you follow that up?' We looked at everything in a review, and went to the forums, where you can always find negative things.""So there are three things we've concentrated on improving in Dragon Age II. Firstly, the visuals – in Dragon Age: Origins, you could take screenshots and not be sure what game they were from, so we've improved the art direction in Dragon Age II. Secondly, the combat system: we liked the way you could pause the action in Dragon Age: Origins, encouraging you to think like a general. But what was missing was the action aspect of the combat, which would let you feel what it is like to wield a sword. In Dragon Age II, we're keeping the ability to think like a general, but we also let you fight like a Spartan.""And thirdly, we're changing how we tell the story. In Dragon Age II, we tell it through a framed narrative, much like The Usual Suspects or Assassin's Creed – basically a story told by another story. In Assassin's Creed, it's really the story of Desmond in the future, rather than Altair. This lets us cover a lot of time – Dragon Age: Origins spanned one year, whereas Dragon Age II will cover a whole decade. And it means we can take you out of the story and drop you into the bits that are the most exciting." Silverman also took pains to point out that: "BioWare prides itself on its choice-mechanics, and in Dragon Age II, you will be able to see the impact your choices have a lot faster."Launching into the demo, it was instantly obvious that Dragon Age II's graphics have been much improved over those of the original, with more solid-looking, colourful characters against a more stylised background – the main characters are trying to escape from the Blight-Lands, their homeland which is being burned to the ground, and a pervasive, greyish, inhospitable background to proceedings supplied the requisite atmospherics. Although detailed, a slightly more cartoonish feel had replaced Dragon Age: Origins rather identikit attempts to look realistic.Responsive combatSilverman said: "With the combat, we wanted it so that when you press a button, something awesome happens." And proceeded to demonstrate that in a fight between the questing party and a collection of scouts – the attacks were certainly more impressive-looking than in Dragon Age: Origins, with whirling slashes and spells that were clearly designed to engage several enemies at once. He also switched to Bethany, the magic-wielding sister/companion of the main character, Hawk (you can choose either gender for Hawk and he/she can be a mage, warrior or rogue). The game has a new mechanism that lets you zoom out, move around the battlefield and select where to direct spells, in order to take out the maximum number of incoming enemies. Dragon Age II, apparently, more or less abandons one-on-one combat in favour of big set-pieces pitting your group against numbers of enemies (or, of course, hard-to-kill bosses).Story and emotionWe saw the framed narrative in effect. The first quest played through had something of a tutorial feel to it, as the enemies, though numerous, were easily dealt with by the questing party, although there was a cost: one of the party was infected by the attacking Hurlocks, corrupted and died, after a substantial cut-scene suggesting that the story will be a more important component of Dragon Age II than it was in Origins. BioWare then switched from the Xbox 360 on which the demo had been running to the PC, and jumped forward to a later part in the game, in which the framed narrative kicked in, and one of the characters in the party, looking back on that quest, said: "Bullshit: that wasn't how it happened," triggering a replay of the quest with extra party members and more challenging opposition.We were shown an enhancement to the conversational choices wheel, which adds icons to each choice, showing tone of voice (in that instance diplomatic, aggressive and sarcastic, denoted by an olive branch, fist and mask).Abilities and levelling upWe were given a peek of the new levelling-up system, and told that characters can be upgraded by enhancing their attributes, or via a new abilities tree, in which abilities with similar characteristics are grouped together, so you can more easily tailor your character's attributes to your favoured playing style.VerdictWhat we saw of Dragon Age II was extremely impressive – it looked considerably more polished than Origins, and appeared to cut more quickly to the chase: the clever narrative structure (who still contends that video games are uniformly mindless?) should let you jump from one bombastic battle to the next, and will hopefully cut out much of the character-developing fannying around that often characterises RPGs and was often a tedious presence in Dragon Age: Origins (especially in its early stages). And what we saw suggests that Dragon Age II will set new standards for quality of narrative in RPGs – although Fable III may have something to say about that. And the more immediate controls may suck in gamers who see RPGs as slightly intimidating and fiddly. The mighty BioWare show no signs of slipping up.
Facebookhad been rumoured to be looking at location-based serviceHot Potatosince July and chose Friday - two days after theFacebook Placeslaunch - to confirm the deal.Hot Potato is a halfway house between Foursquare, Twitter and Facebook Like. Users share what they are doing - whether a venue, activity, song, game or TV show - and the site lists trending terms. Its original focus was more on events, but it later broadened to any activity.Not for long, however, because Facebook is closing the service in the next month and intergrating the staff to its teams - what has become known as an 'acq-hire'.MediaMemoput the deal at between $10-$15m when the deal first emerged, while Facebook confirmed it and said "admired how Hot Potato is helping people socialise around live events". Hot Potato had raised $1.42m funding in November last year when it launched.Hot Potato's ownblog post, which was also careful to say its user data will be deleted and not kept by Facebook, said: "This wasn't an easy decision, especially since we've built up a base of dedicated users. If Hot Potato was going to sell to anyone, Facebook was the natural choice. Facebook is still small, moves fast, provides a great supportive environment for people to be entrepreneurial, and most importantly, Facebook builds great products. We're looking forward to joining their team."Looking further ahead, the influence of&nbsp; Hot Potato's service could mean applying their experience with social check-ins across Facebook's social activity. 'Liked' pages are at the moment only likeable if they have the button, while Hot Potato lets users create their own activity or subject to check into, or like, effectively. There's also a more real time element to Hot Potato than Like, and that's something else that could be refined a little more for a Facebook equivalent of trending topics. Right now, much of that activity is hidden.
UK top 10 video games chart, week ending 21 August 2010PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Kane & Lynch 2: Dog Days(18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (41)PC (2)12 (1)Toy Story 3(3+)DS (39)Wii (21)PS3 (20)Xbox 360 (17)63 (2)Red Dead Redemption(18+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (50)144 (4)Lego Harry Potter: Years 1-4(7+)DS (28)Wii (26)Xbox 360 (16)PSP (15)95 (6)Just Dance(3+)Wii (100)376 (5)Art Academy(unrated)DS (100)27 (9)Super Mario Galaxy 2(3+)Wii (100)118 (19)Prince Of Persia: The Forgotten Sands(16+)Xbox 360 (68)PS3 (23)Wii (4)PSP (3)149 (3)Dance On Broadway(12+)Wii (100)810 (11)Battlefield: Bad Company 2(16+)PS3 (42)Xbox 360 (42)PC (16)25Leisure software charts compiled by GfK Chart Track© 2010ELSPA(UK) Ltd
The defence secretary, Liam Fox, has launched a stinging attack on the forthcoming first-person shooter Medal of Honor, requesting that retailers refuse to stock the game. EA's relaunch of its hugely successful series is set amid the war in Afghanistan and the single-player campaign follows US troops as they seek to defeat the Taliban. However, the multiplayer online mode allows players to take part as terrorist operatives, gaining points for killing allied soldiers, and this is the element that Fox objects to.ThePress Association quotes Foxsuggesting that the game should be subject to a retail ban: "It's shocking that someone would think it acceptable to recreate the acts of the Taliban. At the hands of the Taliban, children have lost fathers and wives have lost husbands. I am disgusted and angry. It's hard to believe any citizen of our country would wish to buy such a thoroughly un-British game. I would urge retailers to show their support for our armed forces and ban this tasteless product."Meanwhile, the news site al-Jazeera hasa video report on the story, showing some in-game footage of a Taliban soldier using a mobile phone to set off a remote explosive device.EA has reportedly responded to Fox via the Sunday Times with the following: "The format of the new Medal of Honor game merely reflects the fact that every conflict has two sides. We give gamers the opportunity to play both sides. Most of us have been doing this since we were seven: someone plays the cop, someone must be robber. In Medal of Honor multiplayer, someone's got to be the Taliban."Of course, this was always going to happen. Video games based around current conflicts have often provoked controversy in the past, with opponents suggesting they exploit the suffering of real-life soldiers and civilians. The Call of Duty: Modern Warfare series has always avoided similar accusations by using fictional settings – even though the titles clearly employ contemporary Middle Eastern environments and protagonists.It's not clear, however, if Fox is aware of the distinction between a narrative-led single-player campaign and a "deathmatch"-style multiplayer mode in which players are able to take on both enemy and allied roles in essentially context-free shootouts. It could be that this distinction is irrelevant to him.Whatever the intricacies of this particular case, it once again opens the debate about whether it is acceptable for video games to portray and explore current conflicts and other news issues. While it is generally accepted that linear media such as books, films and TV series' are "allowed" to use contemporary warzones as settings, games tend to be viewed differently – mostly because of their interactive nature, and the belief that "game" content trivialises serious subject matter.It is extremely unlikely, however, that retailers will follow Fox's suggestion. The game, due out on October 15, has already received BBFC and PEGI certification and has secured an 18+ rating. It will be a key title in the Christmas line-up, alongside the rival shooter Call of Duty: Black Ops.UPDATE 1:the video game news site Eurogamer hasquoted a sourcefrom the Department for Culture, Media and Sport, describing Fox's comments as "a personal view". The culture minister Ed Vaizey has been keen to show his support for the games industry since the election.UPDATE 2:Electronic Arts is preparing a statement to address several alleged inaccuracies in Fox's characterisation of the game.
My weekend gaming was dominated by Move - the forthcoming Playstation 3 motion controller. Playing Sports Champions - the Move version of Wii Sports - it's clear that Move is a step-up in sensitivity and accuracy from Nintendo's console. What is less clear however, is how the controllers will work with better games. Tiger Woods 11, for example, will be interesting and will work with Move once the patch goes live. More thoughts and a review of the final Move launch games next week. I also spent more time on the excellent Lara Croft and the Guardian of Light. But what about you? How was your weekend gaming?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Photo byfamilymwron Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 12 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamZeuS Variant targets US Military Personnel &gt;&gt; Trend Micro"Unfortunately, most people who fall for this scam somebody tried to pull on me yesterday. It will not even be given the oppurtunity to manually download the executable, as this attack first runs a whole suite of browser exploits at the targets first. This leaves manually downloading the file as a last resort attack vector.This is not the first time that the users of the Military Bank have been targeted, with similar campaigns going back to 2007 and beyond. However, those attacks were in an era before incidents like the recent Windows shortcut vulnerability and the Aurora attack. Nowadays, we have to wonder if the motives behind this attack are purely financial, or if the attackers deliberately targeted American military personnel."Stanford Study Explains Internet Trolls &gt;&gt; io9.com"In a study conducted at Stanford, psychologists discovered that people who hold extreme opinions are more likely to voice them loudly than those who hold moderate opinions. At last, science has explained most of what you read on the internet."Google flops and failures &gt;&gt; Innovations in NewspapersThe list limits itself to products that have either vanished or been completely shut down, rather than those which are languishing.The HTML5 Experiments of Hakim El Hattab &gt;&gt; Hakim.seLots of very interesting HTML5-based games and things. Though he warns: "Please don't use this as HTML5 vs Flash firewood. I do it because it's fun. Not because it's HTML5."The Future Of Android … And How To Stop It &gt;&gt; Terence Eden"The gist of this talk is that keeping Android open is key to its success. We must resist the 'AOL-isation' of this platform. How customers, mobile network operators, manufacturers and Google can work together to help keep this ecosystem flourishing."Broadband homes face £20 tax &gt;&gt; Computer Weekly"Non-BT networks will have to pay a £20 tax for every home they connect to a fibre-based next-generation network, according to proposals from the Valuation Office Agency (VOA)."This proposal could earn the government some £205m a year. This would be in addition to what it presently earns from business taxes on BT, Virgin Media, Global Crossing and other network operators that specialise in business networks."What's disgraceful about this is that the Conservatives are going back on their manifesto promise to review the fibre optic taxation structure, while making it more expensive for people to link to faster networks.HTML5 &gt;&gt; Brightcove"The Brightcove Experience for HTML5 is provided at no charge to customers with subscriptions to Brightcove Professional, Enterprise, and Express editions. An early version of the automatic device detection and HTML5 player template is available in the Brightcove Developer Center. Additional capabilities will be provided in future versions released throughout 2010." In other words, sites which use embedded Brightcove video should be able to provide HTML5 versions for non-Flash-enabled devices soon. Ish.A Periodic Table of Visualization Methods &gt;&gt; Visual LiteracyFun, and a reminder that the periodic table is one of the best visualisations ever.Apple eyes kill switch for jailbroken iPhones &gt;&gt; The Register"Apple has applied for a patent covering an elaborate series of measures to automatically protect iPhone owners from thieves and other unauthorized users. But please withhold the applause. The patent, titled "Systems and Methods for Identifying Unauthorized Users of an Electronic Device," would also protect Apple against jailbreaks and other unauthorized hacks to the device, which were recently excepted from copyright enforcement".Is Apple the real U.S. PC market share leader - or soon will be? &gt;&gt; BetanewsDaft-sounding at first, but then Joe Wilcox asks the interesting question of why, precisely, you wouldn't class an iPad as a personal computer. Because if you do, then Apple's ranking in the global and US PC sellers leaps considerably. What makes a personal computer? Precisely?Creep Executive Officer &gt;&gt; Daring FireballI've been thinking about this since Saturday. Here's my theory: the problem with Google is that John Gruber thinks he knows what it is that unsettles him about Google: "Eric Schmidt is creepy. I think he's a really weird dude. Recall, for example, this comment of Schmidt's from 2009, regarding Google and privacy: 'If you have something that you don't want anyone to know, maybe you shouldn't be doing it in the first place.'"A smartphone retrospective &gt;&gt; Marco.org"[At the start of 2007] Smartphones were an established consumer-electronics market with devices that people thought were pretty cool, but often frustrating and with serious shortcomings and design flaws. Then [the iPhone] happened...Netbooks were an established consumer-electronics market with devices that people thought were pretty cool, but often frustrating and with serious shortcomings and design flaws. Then [the iPad] happened.. How do you think the subcompact, inexpensive computer category will look in three years?"You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
I did a lot of writing the other week. By which I mean I signed my name a dozen times on some official papers. And I still stopped twice to ask the woman on the other side of the desk, "Is there much more?" When the ordeal was over, I had to shake my right hand for a good 30 seconds to get rid of the cramp.So I can't get too worked up about the laments that handwriting is dying, and that a little bit of the human soul is dying with it. (England's exam regulator has suggested there is an "issue of validity" with traditional paper exams, because today's teenagers are more comfortable typing at a keyboard than writing by hand.)There is a downside, it's true. According to Kitty Burns Florey, author of Script and Scribble: The Rise and Fall of Handwriting, teachers report that children learn to read more easily when they write the words they are studying. And once we lose the ability to use a pen and paper, it's only a matter of time until we can no longer decipher previous generations' billets-doux. The world will be poorer if only academics get sentimental about Great-Grandad's letters from the front.But I can't be the only non-teenager who would still  happily ditch the pen for good. My generation (I'm in my late 40s) went to school before the rise of the PC, the home printer and digital recorder. We took our class notes by hand; we wrote our essays by hand. Decades later, we can still read these. But many of us long ago surrendered to the computers and mobile phones that surround us. It's not just that we can barely write any more – when we do, we can barely read it. If handwriting is dying, type out the death certificate.• How is your handwriting these days? Tell us below
According to the latest cover story in tech bibleWired, "The web is dead, long live the internet." The headline is attached toa feature by the magazine's editor-in-chief, Chris Anderson, outlining what he calls the abandonment of "the open, unfettered web... for simpler, sleeker services". It has generated a huge reaction online.Are we heading for a less romantic digital world, in which open-ended surfing of the web is replaced by an ordered world phone "apps", tailored to individual preferences? A world in which 'gated digital communities' – whether comprising virtual gamers or fitness fanatics – organise themselves ever more efficiently but ignore the wider web-based possibility of the unexpected.The web, of course, is not the same thing as the internet. While the internet refers to the network of the millions of computers that share a common set of communications protocols, the world wide web – to give it its full title – is the service invented by Sir Tim Berners-Lee in 1989 that sits on top of this network, allowing users to use browsers such as  Explorer and Firefox to surf the web.Anderson's thesis is that web browsers are precipitously declining as the dominant way of using the internet. Statistically, his analysis has its dubious points – as John Naughtonexplores elsewherein theObservertoday, this glosses over the fact that internet usage is increasing at an exponential rate. But Anderson has hit one cultural nail on the head: there's now far, far more to the internet than web pages. And this implies a serious shift not only in what the internet is used for, but also in what digital culture can be said to mean.The most important issues here are as much social as technological. Asked earlier this year what he felt Google's biggest mistake had been, the company's director of research, Peter Norvig, picked "the social aspects" of the web. "Facebook has been very successful and I may have dismissed that," he said. "I think I missed the fact that there is real importance to having a social network and getting these recommendations from friends.&nbsp;I might have been too focused on getting the facts and figures."It was an honest response, and also something of an understatement. This year has seen Facebook's active users swell from around 350 million to over half a billion. The website has now overtaken Google as the most-visited page among US internet users. With services such as Twitter also on the rise – and Google's own attempt at revolutionising real-time communications, Google Wave, quietly crashing and burning – a change is taking place in what the internet is used for, with human connections pushing past mere information as technology's greatest driving force.While Google remains potent, both its business model, which relies on serving targeted advertising next to search results, and its mission – to make information online "accessible and useful" – are threatened by the growing importance of systems such as Facebook to which Google has limited access. Even this, though, isn't even the biggest issue for the old-fashioned web. As Anderson notes, perhaps the most transforming technological force of recent years has been the growth of next-generation mobile devices. Suddenly the world is full of smart handhelds that can go online in a way once possible only with a computer. It's estimated that within five years there will be more mobile internet users than computer-based ones – and these devices are ill-suited to the conventional world of web browsers.Small screens plus limited time and concentration mean that users are in urgent need of well-crafted, convenient programs: self-contained internet applications known as apps that bypass conventional browsing to offer everything from local restaurant recommendations to instructions on making the perfect cappuccino, from mobile spreadsheets to interactive maps, sophisticated games, dictionaries, recipe books, language guides, birdsong interpreters, exercise routines and even pocket torches. Each is a complete, miniature internet experience; each is good for no purpose other than its intended use.According to the latest figures from Ofcom, the average Briton's daily media usage stands at seven hours and five minutes, with internet use growing rapidly. Social networking takes up almost half of all internet time on mobile devices – much of it spent while out and about. As a modern digital consumer, you tend to know what you want and want to do it with a minimum of fuss. You're busy, you're interested in what your friends are saying and doing – and you're prepared to pay for elegance and convenience.The first thing you touch when you wake up is your smartphone; it's also the last thing you touch at night, when you set your alarm for the morning. For everything in-between there's Facebook, Twitter, RSS, streamed radio and television, and your games console. No need to roam the wilds of the open web at all.This is a caricature, but the future it points towards – a life full of smart devices, which continually augment our daily reality – seems ever more plausible. Perhaps inevitably, the company closest to embodying this future is another global giant from California, Apple, within whose exquisite walled gardens more and more consumers are gathering to play. Buy an iPhone, an iPod touch or an iPad – as over 100 million people now have – and you've entered into a bargain that, to some advocates of the open web, is nothing less than Faustian. Everything you buy for your device must be obtained through Apple, who will take its cut and must approve every item sold in their marketplaces. Your device will be beautiful, intuitive, secure and – as far as the critics are concerned – sterile. And a small number of people will be getting very rich indeed out of all this.As conventional media companies have found to their cost, the web doesn't favour old-fashioned advertising models. Profits can wither online: there's nowhere to hide from the numbers that have told newspapers, magazines, broadcasters and bloggers alike that their millions of online visitors are worth far less. Enter what Anderson terms "artificial scarcity": the deliberate decision to lock users into a particular framework or resource, relying on the fact that they'll be willing to pay, one way or another, for something sufficiently indispensable.One digital industry that learned this lesson long ago is the video-game sector, which excels at creating electronic environments hermetically sealed off from the outside world.World of Warcraft's 12 million players are worth well over a billion dollars a year to the company that runs their virtual world, Activision Blizzard, a value that rests on the game's impervious isolation. Only in-game effort by players can generate rewards and status. Its rules are universal and absolute; the company's word is final, and any cheating or exploitation is ruthlessly dealt with. Users would not have it any other way.In one sense, the web has always been a matter more of surfaces than fundamentals. Google is not synonymous with its own website any more than Facebook or Amazon are with theirs. In each case, their value lies in the vast data engines they operate, for which the web is simply one point of access.There's a Google app for the iPhone, just as there are apps for Facebook and Amazon. In terms of ethos, though, there's a world of difference between them, and perhaps the most crucial factor is not so much the divide between the web and the internet as the new, potent alignment between personalisation and gated communities.Personal relationships are by nature not an open business. Our online presences are increasingly substantial, important and valuable to us – and this means there's an increasing demand that they exist within services that offer security and a variety of levels of visibility, rather than an information free-for-all.The major controversies of Facebook's brief history have all centred on the issue of privacy – the security of users' personal details and the question of who is able to view these – and its ability to prosper relies in large part on providing adequate tools and guarantees around users' identities and relationships. This month, the most recent version of the Facebook app for iPhones introduced a "places" function, offering users the chance to "discover moments when you and your friends are at the same place at the same time". Like it or not, the idea of gating and restrictions is central to the success of such services.Does all this, as Chris Anderson suggests, constitute a new digital paradigm? For some observers, what we're seeing is the ugly resurgence of a trend we were lucky to escape in the early 1990s: a world of tethered appliances, sterile software and infantilised consumers that, had it persisted, would have prevented innovative companies like Google or Facebook arising in the first place.As the author and digital activist Cory Doctorow put it this year: "As an adult,I want to be able to choosewhose stuff I buy and whom I trust to evaluate that stuff. I don't want my universe of apps constrained to the stuff that the Cupertino politburo decides to allow for its platform. And as a copyright holder and creator, I don't want a single Walmart-like channel that controls access to my audience and dictates what is and is not acceptable material for me to create."For others, though – including the media commentator Michael Wolff, whose piece on the future of the web ran alongside Anderson's inWired– a necessary balance is being restored between the staggering power of open resources to generate innovation, and the capacity of closed ones to serve particular human demands while generating revenues.Culturally, the internet does appear to be on the cusp of a new phase, for which the current generation of apps and social networks are simply the vanguard. We are becoming a society of networked individuals, accessible to each other and the net at all times. And so the net is in turn becoming more like our society, complete with its special interests, levels of access, factional divisions, and obligations to pay for certain guarantees and conveniences. As more of who we are and what we do migrates online, we are bringing other worlds with us.Tom Chatfield is the author of Fun Inc and a senior editor at Prospect magazine
It is one of the most irritating and ubiquitous annoyances of the internet age: the anonymous commenter. Hiding behind a made-up moniker, anonymous commenters surface on virtually every blog or news website, posting bile, insults, prejudice and ignorance, often for the sheer hell of it.In the free for all that has so far marked internet-based publishing, there seems to be no recourse for those targeted by the so-called "trolls". Certainly not of the sort they would have if such comments were published in hard copy on the letters pages of old media newspapers and magazines, where the threat of libel has kept up standards. But, perhaps, no longer.A law suit filed last week in New York has threatened to hold some of the internet's more unpleasant denizens to account: a rare example of old media rules starting to be applied online.The heroine of the tale isCarla Franklin, a former model and graduate of Columbia Business School. She is taking Google to court over anonymous comments that called her a "whore" on the firm's YouTube website. She is seeking a court order to force Google to identify the person behind the insult. According to her lawyer, Franklin already suspects a certain individual of posting the comments, but needs concrete confirmation before she can go after them in a court of law. She is claiming the insult, which was posted several times by the same YouTube user, was "… made with the intention to harm Ms Franklin's reputation and interfere with her relationships, employment and livelihood".It is hard not to cheer Franklin's cause. Anonymous commenters claim that the cloak of secrecy allows greater frankness and honesty and means whistleblowers and others perhaps hampered by their jobs can post things online with greater safety. But in reality it is all too often just a handy excuse to be rude, juvenile or racist. Franklin is also riding a growing wave against anonymity online. Several American news websites, including theBuffalo Newsnewspaper, have recently forced commenters to use their real names when posting their opinions on stories.
Gamescomis one of the only remaining trade shows that allows members of the public to play forthcoming titles from all the major publishers. In 2009, more than 245,000 gamers attended, and this year's event in Cologne's enormous Messe exhibition grounds looks to be even bigger. Players from around the world have heeded the call to "celebrate the games" and swarm the show floor, with queues for the most popular titles meaning an hour-long wait.The show kicks off every year with conferences from the platform holders, and though this year was rather light on announcements, it certainly wasn't on spectacle. Gearing up for the launch ofKinect, the full motion-control camera for Xbox 360 that utilises the player's body as controller, Microsoft hosted a full play day to show off its forthcoming titles and finally confirmed a European launch date for Kinect of 10 November.All of the Kinect launch games were on show, includingKinect Adventures,Kinect Sports,Kinectimals– a virtual pet game aimed at kids that really stood out – and also Harmonix'sDance Central. Microsoft also premiered new multiplayer titleHalo: Reachand, attracting huge attention, the near-finished version ofFable III, the publisher's action/role‑playing game due to be released on 26 October.Lionhead's Louise Murray, head of the Fable franchise, sees the developer's new game as a key title for the Xbox at the end of the year alongside Kinect andHalo. "I think Fable gives you something different," she said. "Halois really well-known, Kinect is much broader, for the family, and then you have Fable, which is a story, an adventure."Fable III's co-operative multiplayer is much improved sinceFable IIin 2008 – you can even marry your friends in-game, if the urge strikes you. It charts the player's rise from citizen of the very British, endearingly ramshackle kingdom of Albion to ruler of the land, challenging you to make promises to their citizens along the way that they may or may not be able to keep. "Fable is growing," says Murray. "It's always been something that people can get into, but we've been developing our storytelling, andFable IIIis the next step. It's easy to say it's the best one we've done."Sony, meanwhile, unveiledResistance 3andRatchet and Clank: All 4 One, a four-player co-operative platformer, by Insomniac Games. It also showed off the PlayStation 3's – stereoscopic 3D technology, demoing the new entry in the Motorstorm series of racing games,Motorstorm: Apocalypse, in full 3D. There were also impressively enjoyable playable demos of PlayStation Move, Sony's new motion controller which launches in Europe on 15 September.It was a publisher, rather than a manufacturer, however, that made the most announcements at the show. Electronic Arts hosted a conference to announceMass Effect 2for the PlayStation 3, David Beckham's involvement in fitness gameEA Sports Active 2, and revealed the trailer for the sequel to the award-winningDragon Age. EA was one of Gamescom's founding partners and has always put its full weight behind it – aptly demonstrated by the appearance of James and Oliver Phelps, otherwise known as the Weasley twins, on stage to demonstrateHarry Potter and the Deathly Hallowson Xbox 360, using Kinect to control their wands.The Weasleys weren't the only celebrities on show. Linkin Park's Mike Shinoda took to the stage during Sony's conference to demonstrate a level from EA's forthcomingMedal of Honorand admitted it was an unusual experience. "That was such a weird feeling," he laughed. "I can get up there with an instrument and I'll be totally comfortable, but with a game controller it's just unfamiliar."Elsewhere, Square-Enix demonstratedDeus Ex: Human Revolution, the third entry in the role-playing series, and 2K Games gave the mesmerisingBioshock Infiniteits second-ever public outing since its unveiling the previous week. Of the hundreds more games on show, Bethesda'sFallout: New Vegasand forthcoming multiplayer shooterBrinkalso made a strong impression, andRock Band 3, with its full six-string guitar, made a real impact on the public floor. As the organisers had hoped, Gamescom offered much to celebrate, with the huge numbers of gamers in Cologne treated to a glimpse of a final quarter of the year packed with fascinating releases.
Even if your broadband speed, like mine, is a hollow fraction of what you're paying for, it's worth staying online all night to download the 2GB-worth ofLara Croft and the Guardian of Light(Xbox live arcade, Square Enix, cert 12). There's no tomb raider in the title, you'll notice, but fear not – its 14 levels are all set in tombs that vary only in their peripheral decor.Elsewhere, though, there are significant changes to the Tomb Raider template. It's still puzzles'n'action, but the camera viewpoint has changed – the Rear of the Year award will be harder to retain – and so has the control layout. AndGuardian of Lightis a co-operative multi-player game – a thoughtful and well-realised one at that.So your £10 or so buys two distinctly different games, as there are marked differences between solo and multi-player play. And while it's not particularly exciting visually (2GB is a chunk to download but hardly affords space for state-of-the-art lighting) it's good for six or seven hours of subterranean escapism.Escapism of a different kind is inspired byWe Sing Encore(Wii, Nordic Games, cert 12). A bog-standard karaoke yell-along title bundled with two inefficient microphones, featuring 40 songs assembled apparently at random (what did "What Becomes of the Brokenhearted?" ever do to deserve sharing billing with Cheryl Cole?), it'll make all but the most determined attention-seekers escape the room. A combination of at-best amateur vocal talent, Bontempi-style musical arrangements and the inherent dreadfulness of most TV speakers makes for an experience more Guantánamo than Madison Square Garden.
