As I write, on 1 September, none of the official suppliers has the Windows 7 Family Pack, which the Windows Team Blog says will be available in the UK as an upgrade. If I have three Vista Home Premium PCs, can I use the family pack to upgrade from 32-bit Vista to 64-bit Windows 7?Brian RobertsonThe Windows 7 Family Pack will upgrade three Home PCs in the same household to the Home Premium version of Windows, and will be an upgrade version, not a full version. It will be available as a "limited time" offer. Microsoft is making a late start to the European version, due to last minute interference by the European Commission, but I expect it to support a 32-bit to 64-bit upgrade via a clean installation. I also expect the Family Pack to cost £149.99 (it's $149.99 in the US), which is the same as a single full copy of Windows 7 Home Premium.However, Amazon.co.uk is [*was] offering the full version for £64.98, so the Family Pack would only save you £15 per PC. In this case, the saving may not be worth it. If you decide to wait for the Family Pack, some suppliers will send you an email alert when it's available to order.Update: Amazon.co.uk is now offering theWindows 7 Home Premium, Upgrade Editionfor £64.99, and thefull verisonhas gone up to £125.33. It's worth shopping around.Tesco Direct, for example, has the full version for £69.93. The lowest UK online price I can see at the moment is £64.98.
My computer is running extremely slowly much of the time. According to the Windows Task Manager, it is using 80% of the CPU sometimes to do nothing. I regularly run AVG to check for viruses but it hasn't found one. The machine is running XP and has 1GB of memory.Gerry BradyWindows XP is somewhat prone to "runaway processes" that consume most or all of the processor time, and unlike Vista and Windows 7, XP doesn't provide much in the way of performance monitoring. However, with Windows Task Manager or the freeProcess Explorer, you can see which process is consuming the CPU, select it, and end it.If it's not a process you recognise, look it up atAnswers That Work. It might be a bad driver, in which case you can download a new version to replace it. It might be a startup program that you don't need, in which case you can stop it from loading using Mike Lin's simpleStartup Control Panel.One reason for switching to Internet Explorer 8 is that you can run different tabs as different processes. This means you can terminate the runaway thread without losing other tabs you have loaded, but this approach does consume more memory, and opening lots of tabs in IE8 can eat up half a gigabyte.
Power of i5Intel has launched a Core i5 processor that's a cheaper consumer version of last year's all-powerful Core i7. Look out for a flood of new PCs using the new chip.Opera on TVThe browser company has released a software development kit and toolkit "for bringing the web and widgets to TVs and other connected devices".TwestivalA London Twestival (Twitter meetup) is being held tonight (Thursday) at Vinopolis, near London Bridge.london.twestival.comA good DAB for allPure plans to produce "globally compatible digital radios" by adding support for France's forthcoming DMB-R digital radio to DAB and DAB+, to meet the standard European Digital Radio Receiver Profile.Iseeka and you findaIseeka's subscription-free child-tracking system uses radio with a range of a quarter of a mile, so it's portable. One base supports up to 16 wrist tags, so it could be used on school trips.One screen, two functionsAsus is targeting the T1 "TV monitor" range at users who want the same screen as a PC monitor and an HD TV set.Virtually PragueVizerra has added a 3D model of Prague's Old Town Square for virtual visits, and wants users to vote for its next location.Mini mobile gets the Twitters3 says early next month it will offer the INQ Mini 3G mobile with Twitter and other social networking applications.
People using Facebook or other social networks are getting used to the idea of sending each other "virtual" gifts such as roses, or birthday cake or even a teddy bear. Often they are paid for with "virtual" currencies which can be exchanged for dollars or pounds. To those who don't indulge, such practices will seem bizarre, and further proof that something odd is going on in the world.The other way of looking at it is that we may be at the early stages of a movement akin to the industrial revolution, albeit on a smaller scale. Those who left their villages to seek work in the new factories 200 years ago never thought they were part of something that would later be given a label. They just did it. Which is what people all over the world are doing now with virtual goods. Global figures are hard to come by butyear-old estimatesput the value of virtual goods on Facebook at almost $100m. A team including the guru of virtual world economics Edward Castronova has been poring over internal transactions for Sony's Everquest II online game. Writing in New Media &amp; Society, it found that income per capita in the game was between $130 and $164 a year, putting the average player on par with citizens in developing nations such as Congo. It also found that economic behaviour in the game was very similar to the real world, though with more volatile fluctuations (such as inflation shooting up to 50%).Unlike the industrial revolution, the virtual one is led by the East, not the West. Market researcher Plus Eight Star puts the virtual goods market in Asia at more than $5bn, or 25 times higher thanrecent estimates for the US, though they may be a serious underestimate. More than half of this activity is in China where one social network, TenCent,earned $1bn of revenuewith an astonishing 90% coming from selling virtual goods including $204m from mobile phones (an activity that companies such as Flirtomatic are exploiting over here) plus $120m from ad revenue.Is all this a passing fad or a seismic economic change? There are several reasons to expect the latter. First, the technologies behind virtual spaces are powering ahead. It is even possible, indeed likely, that products will be constructed in a virtual world and then "printed" out in the real world as a tangible product. Meanwhile, social networks, virtual worlds and the three-dimensional web get more powerful every year. Second, the user base for virtual activity is exploding among young people, as reflected in a 39% rise in membership of virtual worlds in the most recent quarter – mainly young people – and the continuing growth of Facebook and other networks. Third, growing awareness of the necessity to combat global warming favours virtual goods and virtual worlds. It is much more cost-effective, as increasing numbers of international companies are finding, to meet or collaborate in a virtual world such as Second Life (or more likely their own private world) than to fly everyone to a destination. Fourth, the engine of economic growth in virtual worlds has been micropayments, providing an easy way to buy virtual swords or roses or whatever for a very small amount of money. If micropayments – with Rupert Murdoch leading the charge – finally make it to the mainstream internet, then virtual goods would get a huge boost.We should beware, however, of being carried away by the word virtual. A piece of chocolate will disappear into your mouth in seconds to become virtual, while a virtual rose sent to your phone could last a long time. Many things we think of as real – such as "money" in the form of a pound or dollar note, or the value of a "brand" such as Nike – are themselves virtual; it's just that we are used to them. If the move towards virtual doesn't become a revolution in its own right, it will only be because the virtual and real worlds will have merged to the point where it is difficult to distinguish them.victorkeegan.com
Time for 64-bit?Because I've been impressed with the evaluation version I've been running on two notebooks, I've ordered Windows 7 Ultimate to install on my desktop, a 15-month-old Dell XPS 420 with a Pentium Q6600 processor and 4GB of RAM. It's currently running Vista. Is it feasible to turn my 32-bit desktop into a 64-bit system?Graham SidwellJS:Your quad-core PC certainly has enough power (some people have managed to run Windows 7 on old Pentium III chips). However, it's worth running the freeWindows 7 Upgrade Advisor Betato check your system. This will tell you which programs you must uninstall (in my case, Microsoft Private Folder 1.0), and which you can update. All modern 32-bit software should run correctly on the 64-bit platform, though it will not run old 16-bit software. (Nobody should have written any of that since Windows 95, but some 32-bit programs had 16-bit installation routines.)Unfortunately, the Upgrade Advisor does not advise on 64-bit drivers for people running 32-bit systems, which is what you need. While 64-bit versions of Windows XP and Vista have been the standard on servers for years, desktop and notebook PCs are not as well supported, and you may have problems getting drivers for some components (such as wireless cards) and peripherals. In some cases, manufacturers are still providing Microsoft with drivers, so they're not on the DVD, but running Windows Update after installing Windows 7 solves the problem. Since Dell supported 64-bit Vista on the XPS 420, the chances are your system will work correctly.You can use Windows 7 to upgrade from Vista, and this is simple. However, there is no supported upgrade from any 32-bit version to the equivalent 64-bit version. You will therefore have to reformat the hard drive and do a clean installation. There are wizards and a Windows Easy Transfer tool to help you save and migrate your settings and data.CPU consumedMy computer is running extremely slowly much of the time. According to the Windows Task Manager, it is using 80% of the CPU sometimes to do nothing. I regularly run AVG to check for viruses but it hasn't found one. The machine is running XP and has 1GB of memory.Gerry BradyJS:Windows XP is somewhat prone to "runaway processes" that consume most or all of the processor time, and unlike Vista and Windows 7, XP doesn't provide much in the way of performance monitoring. However, with Windows Task Manager or the free Process Explorer, you can see which process is consuming the CPU, select it, and end it. If it's not a process you recognise, look it up atAnswers That Work. It might be a bad driver, in which case you can download a new version to replace it. It might be a startup program that you don't need, in which case you can stop it from loading usingMike Lin's simple Startup Control Panel. One reason for switching to Internet Explorer 8 is that you can run different tabs as different processes. This means you can terminate the runaway thread without losing other tabs you have loaded, but this approach does consume more memory, and opening lots of tabs in IE8 can eat up half a gigabyte.Windows 7 for familiesAs I write, on 1 September, none of the official suppliers has the Windows 7 Family Pack, which the Windows Team Blog says will be available in the UK as an upgrade. If I have three Vista Home Premium PCs, can I use the family pack to upgrade from 32-bit Vista to 64-bit Windows 7?Brian RobertsonJS:The Windows 7 Family Pack will upgrade three Home PCs in the same household to the Home Premium version of Windows, and will be an upgrade version, not a full version. It will be available as a "limited time" offer. Microsoft is making a late start to the European version, due to last minute interference by the European Commission, but I expect it to support a 32-bit to 64-bit upgrade via a clean installation. I also expect the Family Pack to cost £149.99 (it's $149.99 in the US), which is the same as a single full copy of Windows 7 Home Premium. However,Amazon.co.ukis offering the full version for £64.98, so the Family Pack would only save you £15 per PC. In this case, the saving may not be worth it. If you decide to wait for the Family Pack, some suppliers will send you an email alert when it's available to order.Backchat• Re:Hibernation, agbagb commented on the Ask Jack blog: "I too find that Hibernate rapidly 'gums up' both XP and Vista. The single best PC performance enhancement I've discovered is a program (I use "Kirby Alarm" but there are plenty of alternatives) that reboots my machine every day at a given time – for me, 6.15 am, just after AVG Free has updated the anti-virus system. That daily reboot gives me a very clean system indeed. Probably not as energy-efficient as either hibernating or fully shutting-down at the end of the day, but energy-waste can be greatly mitigated by setting your screen to turn off after 'X' minutes of activity, and by spinning down the hard-disk likewise. These settings are available from within XP and Vista."
Apple has been crowing about one of the new features in Snow Leopard: native compatibility with Microsoft Exchange, which, as it points out, not even Windows supports straight out of the box – you have to add Outlook, part of the Office suite, to a Windows computer.This means that if you're a maverick who insists on using a Mac in a business environment, you can now sync Mail, iCal and Address Book with an Exchange server, though how many people will actually want to do that remains to be seen, as Macs haven't made much headway into the corporate environment. I, however, am a rare beast: a person who has both a Mac and an Exchange server.You can't however sync just any old Exchange server – it's got to be Exchange Server 2007, which, despite its two-year-old name, a lot of corporates still haven't upgraded to. So if your company uses Exchange 2003, forget about being able to use your shiny new installation of Snow Leopard with it.Having said that, if you want to get your Snow Leopard Mac talking to an Exchange 2007 server, the setup is painless. Type in your email address and it should autodetect the settings for the server – mine did, without me doing anything to the Exchange server. Then all you need to do is tell it your username and password. If for any reason it won't autodetect the settings, you'll have to ask your IT department for the details you need.If you've got a big profile on the Exchange server, it will take a while to sync. Quite a long while; certainly long enough to make a cup of tea. Or two. Once it's done, I think it's a bit slow to load when I fire up Apple's Mail – it seems to sit there and think about it before showing updates to your inbox and various folders. Having said that, my inbox is large – 11,637 emails, and that's not counting what's in the other folders.Despite the slight feeling of sluggishness to sync, it's not bad: Address Book shows the photographs I've assigned to my contacts (though emails don't), and it's easy to add any other mailboxes you have access to if, say, you're a PA running your boss's inbox. One niggle, though, is that you can't edit tasks in Mail – you can only mark them complete or change the alarm time.However, Exchange is still pretty new to the Mac platform. It's only with the most recent version of Office for Mac (which came out last year) that you've been able to do any meaningful work with Exchange. And even that has been flaky until the recent upgrade of Entourage – the Mac equivalent of Outlook – which more tightly integrates with Exchange.That update, Entourage Web Services edition, is also picky about which version of Exchange it will play with: it requires Exchange Server 2007 with Service Pack 1 Roll Up 4 – in other words, a very up-to-date installation. Without EWS, you can't sync tasks, and I always found the sent folder reluctant to sync too.So Exchange on the Mac has some way to go yet. It's functional enough for most users, but it isn't slick. And personally I don't like using three separate apps – Mail, iCal and Address Book; I'd rather use the more tightly integrated Entourage. So it's a good starting effort by Apple, but I think it will be a long time before you routinely see Mac-based offices using Exchange.Pros:Painless set-up, ability to use Mac in a corporate settingCons:Contact pictures not shown on emails, won't work with older versions of Exchangeapple.com/macosx/exchange
Ever tried waving your mobile phone around in the air for a better signal? Of course you have. But if you see assistant professor Romit Roy Choudhury of Duke University in North Carolina apparently doing so, he's not worrying about poor reception. He's using his phone as an electronic pen to write reminder notes.In 2005, Choudhury was a PhD student at the University of Illinois working on computer science. Often forgetting things, he wanted to have a quick and easy way of jotting information down."I envisioned having a pen with a wireless interface and an accelerometer. My idea was to be able to write in the air with the pen, and click a button to email the handwriting to my email address. Such pens were unavailable, and I shelved the idea," says Choudhury.From the pen to the phoneSince moving to Duke University, he's revisited the concept thanks to accelerometers in the latest smartphones. An accelerometer senses positional changes: it's the device that prompts the screen image to flip from portrait to landscape when the phone is turned sideways. It also enables games with repetitive movements."At that point, I had the idea of using the phone as a pen, since the phone has both the accelerometer and the wireless capability," says Choudhury. "My students jumped on to the idea, and did a wonderful job of turning it into a good prototype. This first round of prototyping took around six months."Sensing the phone's orientation or playing a game is trivial compared to recognising air writing. His students started by using the phone to gesture a simple square, soon finding it was tough to achieve the right shape. "Then, one day, after innumerable revisions to the algorithm, we suddenly saw a near-perfect square."Working through the alphabet (and numbers) has proved challenging for Sandip Agrawal, electrical and computer engineering senior at Duke's Pratt School of Engineering and graduate student Ionut Constandache. The standard Nokia N95 being used for the experiments has a three-axis accelerometer to detect the X, Y and Z directions.The students wrote a Python script to obtain 30 to 35 instantaneous acceleration readings a second, and taking an average to overcome "noise". Using a wireless link, the readings from the phone were processed on a separate computer with MATLAB, a high-level computing language for mathematical computation.The prototype software now recognises capital letters, numbers, and simple shapes. It works by interpreting the geometric shapes and the order in which the user gestures them. An A, for example, consists of three distinct strokes. Every stroke, angle, and lift of your pen (the phone) is significant if you're trying to interpret air writing on an imaginary plane (the paper). As the phone doesn't have a gyroscope, there are difficulties in distinguishing rotational motion from linear acceleration if the phone is turned in your grip.At the moment, the phone wirelessly sends the recorded data to an adjacent computer for processing. It quickly returns the results to the phone as text, image, and an email. You also have to write large, distinct letters – not joined-up – for the recognition to work."The computations are simple enough to be done on the phone. It's just a matter of time," says Choudhury. "We simply didn't have time to port the code since we are working on so many interesting projects."So what are the remaining challenges for the device, now dubbed the PhonePoint Pen by the researchers? Correcting mistakes when writing is an obvious one: the idea is to allow users to choose a movement that means "delete", such as several horizontal shakes. When writing on the move, the phone's accelerometer picks up your movement as well as its own, distorting the output. Better algorithms, more sophisticated built-in accelerometers, and a gyroscope would all help.Air writing is useful for noting where you left the car at the airport or quickly jotting down an appointment time. Following recent interest from the medical profession, Choudhury also thinks it might help people with poor finger control or speech problems.So when will the researchers release the prototype software for people to try out? "We believe that will be possible in few months," he says."We have the current prototype working on Nokia N95 – but the technology can be used for any programmable smartphones with small tweaks."All done in two shakesRobert Hardy, a research associate in the computing department at Lancaster University, sees the advantage of one-handed mobile phone use which doesn't (unlike text messaging) need your close visual attention. Leaving aside the remaining technical work, he also believes social factors might come into play. "Concerning the latter issue, it may be possible that the user feels embarrassed using this prototype in public places," he says.Another example of mobile phone gesturing was tried by two Lancaster University researchers – it involved shaking two phones together to initiate easy Bluetooth pairing. The emerging technology of near field communication relies on mobile phone touch gestures for payments, ticketing, and door access. However, air writing uses a much larger free space area.Hardy adds that, "by taking advantage of the user's familiarity of physical interactions in the real world, mobile phone gestures can be very intuitive. Relating back to the prototype, the barriers to entry could be potentially low as users are very familiar with handwriting in daily life."Many people are already happily using lifelike gesture control for playing golf or tennis on the Nintendo Wii console. But there's a difference between gaming at home and using your mobile phone in public as an electronic aide-memoire. Even if you're not embarrassed doing so, writing words in thin air is definitely going to earn you some strange looks.
Apple's chief executive, Steve Jobs, today publicly acknowledged for the first time that he has had a liver transplant – and the donor was a man in his mid-20s who died in a car crash.Speaking at the launch of a new range of iPods – his first media appearance since January – Jobs said: "I am very happy to be here today with you all." He was given a standing ovation as he arrived on stage for the launch event at the company's headquarters in Cupertino, San Francisco.On stage, he announced a new iPod nano that is able to record video and upload it directly to YouTube, competing with the Flip camera by network gear company Cisco. There was also a new feature for Apple's music download service iTunes that is called iTunes LP. It adds videos, liner notes, lyrics and other extras to buyers of albums rather than single tracks.The software also lets listeners post details about tracks they are listening to on to Facebook and Twitter.Jobs, who had treatment for a rare form of pancreatic cancer in 2004, had made a series of opaque announcements in January about his health after media organisations and analysts expressed concern about his increasingly gaunt appearance during public speeches last year.Initially, Apple had said Jobs had "a common bug" but, by January, he was saying it was due to a "hormonal imbalance" – but then a few days later said the problem were "more complex" than he had thought. He then said he would take a six-month leave of absence.It later transpired – through documents that were apparently leaked to the press with Jobs's approval – that he had a liver transplant at the Methodist University Hospital Transplant Institute in Memphis, Tennessee.Tonight  Jobs cleared up the matter once and for all. He said: "As some of you may know, about five months ago I had a liver transplant – so I now have the liver of a mid-20s person who died in a car crash and donated his organs. I wouldn't be here without such generosity. So I hope all of us can be as generous and elect to become organ donors."He added: "I'd like to take a moment to thank everybody in the Apple community." He said that Tim Cook, the company's chief operating officer who took over the daily running of the company while Jobs was on sick leave earlier this year, and other Apple executives ran the company well in his absence."I'm vertical, I'm back at Apple and I'm loving every day of it," Jobs announced,  and was greeted with warm applause from many of the invited audience.Speaking of the new video-enabled iPod, Jobs said video was a market that Apple was interested in getting into, while the new iTunes feature looked like an attempt to please record labels – which have seen their revenues tumble with the advent of individual track downloads.Jobs also extolled the company's success with its two newest products, the iPhone and touchscreen iPod Touch, which have sold 30m and 20m worldwide since their launch in summer and autumn 2007.Phil Schiller, Apple's head of marketing, said that the iPod Touch is now "the fastest-selling model" because it could play games – downloaded from Apple's "app store" – and get email and surf the web on a wireless network.
It probably feels that way to the bloggers using WordPress who have discovered that their sites have become spam buckets, after a worm took advantage of known vulnerabilities in recent versions of the popular blogging software.We don't know how many blogs have been compromised, but as blogging journalist Adam Tinworthwrote: "By Saturday, tech celebs from Robert Scoble to Andy Ihnatko got hacked. Twitter was full of the wails of the hacked, and the retweetings of the warning".The worm "registers a user, uses a security bug (fixed earlier in the year) to allow evaluated code to be executed through the permalink structure, makes itself an admin, then uses JavaScript to hide itself when you look at [the] users page, attempts to clean up after itself, then goes quiet so you never notice while it inserts hidden spam and malware into your old posts,"according to Matt Mullenweg, founding developer of WordPress.Auttomatic, the company behind WordPress, discovered the latest vulnerability on 11 August and offered a patch the next day. Blogs hosted on WordPress.com are running the latest version of the software and were unaffected.There is a joke that you know when a site or bit of social media software like WordPress becomes successful when it gets spammed. A positive spin on this worm is that WordPress has become successful enough to warrant the attention of coding malcontents, but for those affected, it's difficult to find a silver lining when they have to spend hours cleaning up compromised blogs.Security analyst David Kierznowski at BlogSecurity has alistof more than two dozen known vulnerabilities in all versions of WordPress. A 2007 survey of 50 WordPress by Kierznowski found that only one of the sites was running the latest version of the software, leading him to warn that theWordPress community was vulnerable to attacks. So maybe the question isn't whether WordPress is more likely to be hacked but whether WordPress users are less likely to upgrade.Mullenweg told the Guardian: "Our success has definitely brought more people into the community both improving the code and looking for ways to exploit it. It's unlikely an in-house CMS [content management system] project or smaller software would have the the quality or quantity of developers WordPress does, and 'security through obscurity' of the code being private is not an effective protection."But the anxiety that this attack – one of a number in the past year against WordPress – has engendered may create enough concern for someone to spot the chance to create a rival product. Mullenweg agrees that this is a "unique opportunity" – though that may be just to tempt people to move to Auttomatic's hosted offering.Kevin Anderson
Peer pressure is a subtle thing. You may not know that you're reacting to it, but you are. Entire psychological theories suggest that our actions – including the way people look to celebrities to tell them what to do – are all built around the way our brains have evolved: we are social animals who in general want to stay within the mass, but move up within that mass so more people in the group look up to us than down on us.This was illustrated most beautifully a few years ago in Celebrity Big Brother, when the participants were ordered on their first evening to rank themselves in order of fame. This was the time when complete non-celebrity Chantelle Houghtonlet others believe she was more famous than them– partly, perhaps, because she was female, blonde and pretty. The jockeying was quite brutal nearer the top. People want to be at the top of whatever heap they find themselves in.I was prompted to this thought while watching the comments in my Twitter feed, where people had been updating to Apple's Snow Leopard and proclaiming themselves happy. Apart from Simon Willison, the developer behind our fabulous MPs' expenses crowdsourcing system, whohasn't had much fun with it: "Getting pretty frustrated now. Seriously recommend NOT upgrading to Snow Leopard at least until the first patch release. Pauses/hangs often."Now, Willison's use of his machine may be closer to mine than most other peoples' – low-level additions, your own install of Python, add-ons etc – but I found myself more disposed towards the reports of the ease of Snow Leopard's installation and behaviour. Why? Peer pressure. Twitter brings that closer; but only because it's the fastest mass individual messaging system (so far).Before Twitter, you would have consulted the crowd – your peers and those you look up to – on sites like Facebook or MySpace and on blogs and news websites. (And of course people still get their peer values from news sites. Have you readour Snow Leopard review?)The danger with peer pressure is how easily, and at how primeval a level, it makes you want to conform. On seeing those positive tweets ("regained 50GB of disk space!"), I'll admit to a batsqueak of reaction, a limbic lurch that's beyond conscious control.Everyone's upgrading!it says.I have to upgrade too!I often do the same when I see computer gear – often hard drives – for sale, especially with "reduced" stickers on, in shops.(The solution is to offer a ridiculously low price – if they're reducing it, they want to get rid of it, right? If they accept, you win; if they don't, you've sated your urges while not actually spending anything.)What Facebook and Twitter and the increasingly instant nature of the web do though is to heighten our perceived need to have what other people have. It's word of mouth at the speed of light.That's great when it comes to finding out news (though your life has probably not been materially changed by Michael Jackson's death, unless you had tickets for his O2 concerts), but not necessarily for things needing careful consideration."I did X – so should you!" is classic peer pressure. Unfortunately, the same approach is what got banks to invest in collateralised debt obligations, homeowners to take out unsustainable buy-to-let mortgages, and some people to upgrade their systems to software that breaks their old setups which worked perfectly fine before. Sometimes you need a safety valve to stop peer pressure building up too heavily.
For years, the aim of pretty much every technology company has been to make a product that people can't give up using, and in case something better comes along from a rival, make sure that they can't get their stuff – whether it be data, software or hardware – to work easily with the newcomer's platform. On this rested the success of the compact cassette v the 8-track, VHS v Betamax, Iomega's Zip v other backup systems, and most recently Blu-ray v HD DVD.Amidst which, Brian Fitzpatrick's role at Google sounds, at the very least, contrary. He runs its self-styled (and half-jokingly named) "Data Liberation Front" in the Chicago offices, and his aim is to make it easier – one button is the ideal – to export your data from Google's servers onto a storage format of your choice – whether that's your own web server, your computer, or the comfort of your backup drive that you keep locked away in a fireproof cupboard after using it every night.TheData Liberation Front– the name's a jokey reference to the Judean People's Front, the would-be terrorist group in Monty Python's Life of Brian that never quite gets its act together and spends most of its time bickering – is actually a good thing for Google's customers, Fitzpatrick argues, because it means that lock-in element can't be applied to your data."Think of it like you were renting a house," says Fitzpatrick. "If you decided to move out and the landlord came and told you that you couldn't take your furniture or your clothes or your family photos, you wouldn't be pleased, would you?" His point being that Google wants to give you that comfortable feeling that if you need to export your data then you can.In the click of timeIt's already been achieved forBlogger, the free blogging platform the company bought. There is a one-click export (to the Atom format) which preserves not only posts but also comments. (An export to RSS, which is also available, only preserves the blog posts.) Google Notebook, which has been "end of lifed" (read: killed off), has had export functionality added to it. Fitzpatrick notes all sorts of Google products that have got export functionality: Google Docs, iGoogle, and various other Google products. (And, inevitably, you can follow it on Twitter attwitter.com/dataliberation— which might make you ponder how easy it is, by contrast, to get your tweets out of Twitter.)And next, he says – though dates aren'tgi – there'll be an "export" button for Google Sites (in HTML), as well as a "mass export" from Google Docs, for those who want to export a lot of data at once.You can see the clever sales logic. Many people fret that with cloud computing you can't walk up to any location – still less a specific machine – and say: "My data is in here." Such distributed services mean your data might be on five continents at the same time.Thus people, and companies, get uncomfortable about trusting a cloud service, because they don't know where it is, and so can't be sure it's really safe. For Google to say "we can easily import your data" isn't more of a claim than others are already making.But if it then says "exporting your data is one-button easy", it actually has a selling point. True, it looks perverse to those accustomed to the lock-in mentality of previous commercial battles. But it may be the right approach for the web. It's classically, Google-typically, counter-intuitive.Fitzpatrick studied Latin and Greek ("and ceramics") at university, then went to work for OnShore, a small networking company based in Chicago. There he got interested in fixing a problem with an open source database driver, and was then encouraged to submit the change to its authors. Which led to working on Subversion, a version control system widely used by teams of programmers who need to co-ordinate different versions of programs. He then went to Apple, where he worked on the consulting team that would go with every sale of its fabulously expensive WebObjects package, and then back to Subversion. (He wrote the book on it.) When Google bought the company he was working at, he was reluctant to join: he'd set down roots in Chicago. But the company was happy to let him set up an engineering department in the city (it already had a sales centre). He's also in charge of Google Affiliate Networks, an acquisition from the takeover of DoubleClick. He adds: "We believe in an open web for everyone … The web is fundamentally about openness."Open and shut caseBut there's also two other ways in which it works to Google's advantage. First, it encourages its developers not to fall behind rivals. If the price of being overtaken is that people will pick up their data and leave your application behind (which might then mean your job as the application's developer vanishes), you'll have a stronger incentive to keep going. But equally, for managers who don't want to have to support a million wilting blooms, being able to export data means that unsuccessful projects can be shut down without regrets that users will curse the company for locking away their data on its servers forever.Compare that with the outcry that Yahoo faced when it announcedit would close Geocities: efforts to save it sprouted up, and Yahoo wasn't popular. Google isn't popular for closing services – but at least Google Notebook users can get their data out.So, export for blogs and Google docs is straightforward enough, as everyone is familiar with their formats. But how will exporting work for a completely novel idea, such asWave, whose functionality nobody outside Google ("or inside," adds Google's PR woman, who is listening) has yet managed to describe in fewer than a thousand hand-waving words (it's something like "email and instant messaging and collaboration but with changes shown over time")? How do you export something which has a unique format?For a moment, Fitzpatrick looks faintly alarmed. But that's not because he hasn't considered it – although Wave was developed in Sydney, his Chicago team has already been looking at what it needs to do."We have talked about it. It's not that difficult to represent [its data]. The question is how to represent time. Wave has the extra dimension of revisions. There are ways to represent that but nothing else really has anything that it's like. It's unique." What about Wikipedia's "diff", which shows the differences between revised versions of the same page? "That's perhaps the closest," Fitzpatrick acknowledges. The problem then is that a diff is a database representation and there isn't an agreed way to export a database. (SQL ends up being database-specific, Fitzpatrick says.)The irony is that if Fitzpatrick succeeds, then Eric Schmidt, Google's chief executive, will probably be happy. "He keeps telling us, the way to not be evil is to not lock users in," Fitzpatrick says. "He tells us, just get the users and we'll figure out how to make money."
File deletion is all about control. This used to not be an issue. Your data was on your computer, and you decided when and how to delete a file. You could use the delete function if you didn't care about whether the file could be recovered or not, and a file erase program – I useBCWipefor Windows – if you wanted to ensure no one could ever recover the file.As we move more of our data ontocloud computing platformssuch as Gmail and Facebook, and closed proprietary platforms such as the Kindle andthe iPhonedeleting data is much harder.You have to trust that these companies will delete your data when you ask them to, but they'regenerally not interestedin doing so. Sites like these are more likely to make your data inaccessible than they are to physically delete it. Facebook is a known culprit: actually deleting your data from its serversrequires a complicated procedurethat may or may not work. And even if you do manage to delete your data, copies are certain to remain in the companies' backup systems. Gmail explicitly says this in its privacy notice.Online backups, SMS messages, photos on photo sharing sites, smartphone applications that store your data in the network: you have no idea what really happens when you delete pieces of data or your entire account, because you're not in control of the computers that are storing the data.This notion of control also explains how Amazon was able todelete a bookthat people had previously purchased on their Kindle e-book readers. The legalities are debatable, but Amazon had the technical ability to delete the file because it controls all Kindles. It has designed the Kindle so that it determines when to update the software, whether people are allowed to buy Kindle books, and when to turn offpeople's Kindles entirely.Vanish is a research project by Roxana Geambasu and colleagues at the University of Washington. They designed a prototype system that automaticallydeletes data after a set time interval. So you can send an email, create a Google Doc, post an update to Facebook, or upload a photo to Flickr, all designed to disappear after a set period of time. And after it disappears, no one – not anyone who downloaded the data, not the site that hosted the data, not anyone who intercepted the data in transit, not even you – will be able to read it. If the police arrive at Facebook or Google or Flickr with a warrant, they won't be able to read it.Thedetailsare complicated, but Vanish breaks the data's decryption key into a bunch of pieces and scatters them around the web using a peer-to-peer network. Then it uses the natural turnover in these networks – machines constantly join and leave – to make the data disappear. Unlikeprevious programs(PDF) that supported file deletion, this one doesn't require you totrust any company, organisation, or website. It just happens.Of course, Vanish doesn't prevent the recipient of an email or the reader of a Facebook page from copying the data and pasting it into another file, just as Kindle's deletion feature doesn't prevent people from copying a book's files and saving them on their computers. Vanish is just a prototype at this point, and it only works if all the people who read your Facebook entries or view your Flickr pictures have it installed on their computers as well; but it's a good demonstration of how control affects file deletion. And while it's a step in the right direction, it's also new and therefore deserves further security analysis before being adopted on a wide scale.We've lost the control of data on some of the computers we own, and we've lost control of our data in the cloud. We're not going to stop using Facebook and Twitter just because they're not going to delete our data when we ask them to, and we're not going to stop using Kindles and iPhones because they may delete our data when we don't want them to. But we need to take back control of data in the cloud, and projects like Vanish show us how we can.Now we need something that will protect our data when a large corporation decides to delete it.Bruce Schneier is BT's chief security technology officer
Volunteers started installing what will be the world's oldest working computer atthe National Museum of Computingat Bletchley Park last week, as hundreds of people turned out to celebrate the site's wartime code-breaking exploits on Enigma Day. The valve-based metal monster was designed at the Atomic Energy Research Establishment in Harwell and started operating in 1951, so it wasn't the UK's first electronic computer. However, other early machines – including Bletchley Park's Colossus, EDSAC at the University of Cambridge and the Manchester Baby – were broken up. All we have now are rebuilds."The Harwell machine is the only complete machine from that time," says Kevin Murrell, director of TNMOC. "And we have absolutely everything, including the original spares and the circuit diagrams, and oodles and oodles of programs on punched paper tape. The nice thing for us – the amazing thing – is that the three original designers from Harwell are still alive, and are helping us with the project. They're in their 80s and 90s, but they're thrilled with the idea."When the first UK computers were built after the war, food was still rationed and resources were in short supply. After you'd built something, it was normal to re-use the parts to build something else. So how did the Harwell machine survive?"It's led a charmed life," says Murrell. "It was used at Harwell for about seven years, and then they started buying commercial equipment. It was offered as a prize to the educational institution that could come up with the best case for having the machine, and Wolverhampton College of Technology won. They treasured the machine and kept it in tiptop condition from 1957 until 1973, when it went to Birmingham Science Museum. They displayed it for four or five years, I think, before putting it into storage."We've decided to restore it to the point at which it left Wolverhampton, so we're calling it the Witch computer," says Murrell. The name is the college's acronym for Wolverhampton Instrument for Teaching Computation from Harwell.The restoration is being done by theComputer Conservation Society, which is a joint venture between the British Computer Society, the Science Museum and the Museum of Science and Industry in Manchester. The United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority is helping to sponsor the project.The decimal pointLike Colossus and other machines from the period, Witch is built in a series of metal frames. At the moment they are aligned, but Tony Frazer from the CCS says: "Some photographs show it arranged in a curve." On the left are the banks of Dekatron cold cathode counting tubes, each of which can store a number from 0 to 9, so the machine can store decimal numbers up to 9.9999999. (Murrell insists they're Dekatron tubes: "they've never been called Dekatron valves, so please don't try to correct me!") On the right are the mechanical relays, with the whole thing being connected together by 22 Amphenol cable connectors. Programs and data are loaded using an array of six paper-tape readers, with repeated subroutines on tape loops."One of the things that attracted us to the project was that it was built from standard off-the-shelf Post Office components, of which we have a stock built up for Colossus," says Frazer. "And we have some former Post Office engineers who can do that sort of wiring."Frazer says he can imagine the machine's three designers – Ted Cooke-Yarborough, Dick Barnes and Gurney Thomas – going to the stores with a list and saying: "We'd like these to build a computer, please."Dick Barnes, now a sprightly 88, says: "We had to build [the machine] from our existing resources or we might not have been allowed to build it at all. The relay controls came about because that was my background: during the war I had produced single-purpose calculating devices using relays. We knew it wasn't going to be a fast computer, but it was designed to fulfil a real need at a time when the sole computing resources were hand-turned desk calculators."Independent spiritThe design was very much a home-grown affair, without the input some groups got from the US. "We had occasional contacts with other people, and we went to look at EDSAC in Cambridge, but on the whole we had to stand on our own feet," says Barnes. "We realised we were poor relations compared with the three major projects going on at Manchester, Cambridge and the NPL [National Physical Laboratory]."Now he's hoping to visit TNMOC to see it again, over 50 years after it left Harwell. "In all the photographs, it really looks in sparkling condition. It's astonishing. We owe a lot to Wolverhampton and to Birmingham for the way they stored it," says Barnes.Murrell hopes that the project will help to attract others who used the machine, and who will also be able to contribute their knowledge. "Because so many students went through Wolverhampton college, a huge number of people got to see it, and remember using it. That's very unusual," says Murrell. "We have already found one program, done for Chubb, the locksmith, and got in touch with the chap who wrote it."In fact, one of the reasons for having a working machine is so the project can save as much original software and systems software as possible. This will be used to create an accurate graphics-based software emulator so that, in the future, people will always be able to see how the Witch worked. They won't, of course, feel the warm glow of 900 working tubes, all of them prone to failure."In time," says Murrell, "it simply won't be possible to run these machines, because there won't be the spares available." But for at least a few years, the Witch that was dead will live again.
Last week, at the CEDEC game conference in Japan, the creator of the legendary giant robot manga series Mobile Suit Gundam launched an astonishing attack on gaming. "I think that videogames are evil ... [Gaming] is not a type of activity that provides any support to our daily lives, and all these consoles are just consuming electricity! Videogames are assisting the death of our planet!"I think the venerable Yoshiyuki Tomino was partially joking – especially as the Gundam series has spawned more videogames than I can begin to remember. But does he have a point?In a sense, becoming a gamer does add a clown shoe-sized girth to your carbon footprint; you've got the console itself, that large-screen LCD TV you bought to get the most out of the HD visuals and maybe even a home theatre sound system; that's quite a drain on the power grid.Of course, there are modest ways to reduce your impact – switching off your console when it is not in use, turning off the TV when you're downloading large files, buying games and movies via digital distribution, and investing in a solar panel gadget to charge your DS or PSP – but this isn't really addressing Tomino's fundamental complaint that we're all sedentary power vampires destroying the planet one shoot-'em-up at a time.But I disagree. For a start, videogames have proved a highly engaging means of communicating ecological issues to young people – much more effective than old Al Gore shouting at us in front of a presentation. Most major charities are commissioning their own educational titles – Greenpeace, for example,has a whole selection– and there are children's MMOs such as Elf Island and Emerald Island designed to impart a digestible eco-message to kids. And of course, Sim City will tell you all you need to know about the consequences of mass industrialisation, without preaching to you about "doing your bit".More importantly, the next generation of gamers could be the one to get us out of this whole darn mess. Almost every videogame  is about the individual engaging with and defeating complex systems. While real life tends to make us feel hopeless and disengaged when it comes to massive global issues, the virtual environment is a comprehensible and crucially malleable space in which consequences are immediately apparent. Games like Sim City, Spore, Civilization and Tetris are not only an intellectual training ground, they foster and endorse a view that big problems are solvable. Far from assisting the death of the planet, this attitude is probably the only thing that can save it.
Former banker Neil Jones faced familiar hurdles when he decided to try his hand at writing a novel last year. With a big chunk of his thriller complete, he tested the waters with literary agents. Weeks went by and finally one called to say it received 300 submissions a week and took on two or three authors a year. This started Jones thinking about the possibilities of low-cost, digital publishing. A year later he runs one of the world's leading ebookstores and ebook-reader-makers.His start-up company, Interead, developed the coolerbooks.com ebook site. He want to sell theSony ebook Readerto accompany the downloads but Sony could not guarantee supply,  so he created theCool-er e-readerinstead. After a few months in the market, worldwide sales of the Cool-er (which costs £189 in the UK) have surpassed seven figures, he says."I came into this market thinking we would be a comfortable number three in the US, and a comfortable number two in the UK," Jones says. "Now I'm pretty confident we'll be number two in America by this time next year in terms of sales, and number one in the UK."Jones believes the key to getting consumers to buy handheld e-readers is to make them light and fashionable with a choice of colours – much like MP3 players. "If you are on the tube you want to be happy about reading it in front of people. You don't want it covered in some cheap plastic cover," he says.Another key to selling the Cool-er is making sure plenty of ebooks are available. Coolerbooks.com has just become the first ebookstore outside the US to offer 500,000 of the public domain books (books that have fallen out of copyright) available from Google Books.With more retail deals being thrashed out and a fierce battle with Interead's much bigger rival Sony raging on, Jones has a pretty good excuse for not having finished that novel.
Ahead of today's much-discussed (already?) launch of more iPods and version 9 of iTunes (on 9/9/9 - a date that even Americans/Brits* can't mess up), I've been looking at the future of iPods.Part of that led to an interesting discussion with Mark Mulligan, vice-president of the global media practice at Forrester Research.Mulligan points out that yes, there are tons of iPods being sold each quarter, and that things look wonderful if you totted up the total number sold - 217m, according to Apple's numbers, and that's not counting iPhone sales, which total another 25.6m.But what if you assume that some of those are people replacing old or worn-out or broken iPods? Mulligan suggested a two-year replacement cycle, which gives you a rather different view of how many have been sold: the total then comes to 108m.(Yes, of course not everyone is going to religiously replace their iPod after two years. But it's a method for calculating: some people might never upgrade, some might never buy another iPod, some might buy lots. It's a proxy for figuring out what the real installed base is.)I also tried, in the graph above (click for a larger version) looking at what happens with an 18-month replacement cycle, and a 3-year replacement. The numbers then: 75m or 158m.Clearly the margins of error are pretty large here. But it's worth looking at, because it has implications for the music industry - which is the point that we'll be discussing later on the site. (I'll aim to update this post when that story goes up.)Meanwhile, where do you score on the replacement metric? Assuming you've got an iPod, or know someone who has, that is.(* delete, mentally, as appropriate)
And so yesterday, 24 hours before the release ofThe Beatles Rock Band, another hoary old rocker suggested that guitar games will destroy music as we know it. In aninterview with the BBC, Rolling Stones star Bill Wyman moaned: "It makes less and less people dedicated to really get down and learn an instrument. I think is a pity so I'm not really keen on that kind of stuff."His comments reflect those of Chad Kroeger, lead singer with execrable post-grunge outfit Nickleback, who last yeartold MTV website readers: "Start rock bands. Set down the 'Guitar Hero,' learn how to play an actual guitar and start a band, because it's hard to find more bands to put a solid rock-and-roll package together, to get out there."First of all, any rock musician who uses a sickening corporatised phrase like "solid rock-and-roll package" to describe a band's music should be immediately shunned. (Surely, in rock terminology, "solid rock-and-roll package" should only ever be used to describe the contents of a male band member's trousers?) Also, fundamentally, Wyman and Kroeger are wrong. Their fears are ridiculous.And here's why...Kids learn the guitar for two key reasons: to express themselves musically and to get together with some mates, form a band and attract a solid base of adoring fans. Rock Band is no use for either of these. Sure, there are specialist nights in bars around the world where you can play Rock Band and Guitar Hero on stage, but this is the instrumental equivalent of karaoke: although enormous fun for an evening, it's not going to bring fame, fortune or creative satisfaction.At the same time, Alex Rigopulos, co-founder of Guitar Hero and Rockband creatorHarmonix Music Systems, offers an intriguing counter argument to the Wyman hypothesis; that these games actuallyencouragemore people to play a genuine guitar. He may well have a point. Last year, a research projectcommissioned by charity Youth Musicfound that up to 2.5 million UK youngsters have been inspired to take up real instruments after playing console music titles.Claire Davies, deputy editor ofTotal Guitarmagazine, which is aimed specifically at novice and intermediate musicians, concurs: "Total Guitar has received hundreds of emails over the past year since running a feature on Guitar Hero and one of the game's lead guitarists, Marcus Henderson. The majority of our readers praise the game for introducing them to an entire catalogue of music that they might not otherwise have discovered, which they have then requested tablature for, to learn on guitar. Some of our readers do get stagnant in their development, but accessing a new catalogue of music via the Guitar Hero soundtracks has given them a new focus, new genres to explore and in turn new techniques to develop to bolster their guitar vocabulary."Certainly, most young bands seems to be enthusiastic about the games. "Whenever TG does an on-the-road diary piece with a guitarist or heads backstage to their dressing room or tour bus for an interview, we always find copies of Guitar Hero among their video games," says Davies. The games love them back - Harmonix has featured unsigned artists in downloadable track packs for Rock Band, and is now setting up theRock Band Network, allowing groups to upload tracks, which can then be bought by the game's fans and played along to. Up-and-coming Welsh group Attack! Attack! has just won a competition to have latest single, 'You and Me' included on Guitar Hero 5. Furthermore, established bands get a much better split of the revenues from a Rock Band or Guitar Hero inclusion than they would on an iTunes download; and there's usually a huge boost in sales for tracks featured on the games. Apparently, Aerosmith made more money from the release of last year's Guitar Hero: Aerosmith than they did from either of their last two albums.Critics also like to point out that there's no useful correlation between the experience of playing console guitar sims and the ability to make real music. But they're wrong again. For a start, the latest iterations of Guitar Hero (now developed by Neversoft) come with a Music Studio feature allowing players to create their own basic tracks, then distribute them on the GHtunes service. The results are probably not going to get you in the iTunes Top ten, but this facility represents a vital bridge between simulation and creation.There are also more fundamental links between the two skillsets. "The essence of maintaining rhythm, developing hand-eye co-ordination and a sense of timing that you gain from playing these games is helpful," says Davies, "and for people who have never held a guitar before, holding a controller will enable them to get used to the sensation of holding the real thing. As for the controllers, they keep getting better and more realistic: this month guitar giant Fender has released the Rock Band Wireless Wooden Fender Stratocaster guitar controller, which is a wooden full-scale replica of the popular Stratocaster, even down to the hand painted gloss three-colour Sunburst finish."Ultimately, what Wyman's comments reek of is the familiar generational fear of technology and of profligate and irresponsible youngsters ruining the arts. Veteran musicians were saying the same thing about sampling in the Eighties; they envisaged a future in which traditional instruments rotted as tech savvy teens turned wholesale to keyboards and computer screens. Predictably this audio apocalypse never happened. Tactile music making is a primal creative instinct, it is coded into the DNA of modern man; earlier this year scientists from Tübingen university discovered three flutes in the Hohle Fels cavern in  Germany that date back over 35,000 years. Flutes are still around. And when Harmonix finally gets round to writing Flute Hero, they won't disappear.Same with guitars. The reason Activision is so delighted about grafting Kurt Cobain's image intoGuitar Hero 5is because artistically (let's put the tragic addictions and suicide aside for a moment) he represents something - something to aspire to, something iconic and beautiful. You could complete every song in expert mode on Guitar Hero or Rock Band, you could do it blindfolded - but the achievement pales into insignificance beside composing Smells Like Teen Spirit - as much fun as these games are, deep down, we all know this to be true. But you know what? We play anyway. Music is a powerful enough medium to allow us to continue.
Block 14.39pm BST:Much is being expected from what most people think might be pretty straightforward tonight.The high expectations: Steve Jobs appears to launch a new iTablet, with a new music format requiring iTunes 9 - which also ushers in subscriptions, a la Spotify - and announces that the Beatles' songs will be available for download from the iTunes Music Store, which is introduced by Sir Paul McCartney and Ringo Starr playing together for the first time in (how long?), and also new iPods in which the iPod Touch gains a camera and the iPod nano gains an FM tuner.The lowball expectations: no Steve Jobs, no Sir Paul, no Ringo, no Beatles on the iTunes Store, no FM tuner, no iTunes subscriptions. But new iPods, including a camera for the iPod Touch, and a new version of iTunes.Which one sounds more likely to you?Block 24.44pm BST:(Charles Arthur writes:) if you're looking for confirmation on the highball expectations, then a website called unbeatable.co.uk (uh-huh)says it has leaked picturesof an iPod Touch with a camera, and a skyscraper-style iPod nano.My take: good Photoshopping, but something that fat wouldn't get out of Cupertino.Block 34.50pm BST:Charles writes: While you're here, you might like to have a browse of our main story of the day, "Twilight of the iPods" (ach, see vot we did there?) which notes how sales of the "traditional" - ie non-connected - iPods has tailed off. Analysts think that pattern is going to be reflected all across the MP3 player market over the next few years.But that has big implications for the music industry, as it's been iPods that have been driving sales of music downloads for some time. If people aren't buying iPods, or are buying iPods that also run apps (and games) and like those, then will music download sales stall?Block 45.23pm BST:Charles writes: and just to be iPod-tastic, there's also a blog post:How large is the iPod installed base?(Next question: how much larger will it get after tonight?)Block 55.28pm:Bobbie writes: It's a crisp, cool morning here in San Francisco - I'm wearing a jumper! - and the media and special guests are piled up outside the Yerba Buena Center for the Arts. I've seen a lot of familiar faces among the press gaggle, but yet to see anything that betrays whether we'll see Steve Jobs on stage here.It was this event last year that Jobs made his last public appearance - before dropping out of his annual MacWorld keynote, taking medical leave and getting a liver transplant. There's some speculation that we'll see him here today, which would be not just a boost for the company, but a sign that he's returning to something like normal.No news from the floor here on what we might see, over and above the usual speculation. In the meantime I'm heading inside to see what's going on.Block 65.32pm:By the way: if you're looking to log on as it happens, the event is supposed to kick off at around 6pm British time, and shouldn't take more than an hour.Block 75.43pm:Bobbie writes: Turns out I was a little previous, we're all still standing outside while they fill us with pastries and coffee - no doubt laced with a concoction that will make the reality distortion field even stronger when he step inside.In the crowd, meanwhile, I see New York Times gadget reviewer David Pogue (no doubt talking about the accusations of bias that have hit him recently) and that bloke Greg Grunberg, who plays the psychic policeman from Heroes. Not sure if anybody watches it any more, but this perhaps indicates something about video. Then again, he also has a band with Hugh Laurie and (yes, really) so perhaps it's music. Or perhaps he's just a geek.Ooh, they're letting us in.Block 85.48pm:Bobbie writes: OK. Now we're in - and I'm immediately serenaded by the dulcet tones of Aerosmith's version of Walk This Way (not their classic collaboration with Run DMC, by the sounds of it). Next it's a bit of Green Day - local lads from just across San Francisco bay, but I'm not sure if we should be reading too much into the set list yet.A little gang of smile Apple people are gathered around the front of the stage, including Greg Joswiak, who runs marketing for iPods. I hear the mention of a price - 199 - but, unsurpisingly, nobody says what product they're talking about. Still! We have a price! (even if there is no product to match it to yet).Block 95.59pm:Bobbie writes: Now the Rolling Stones kick in on the speakers - with the song used as the tagline for the event - and the voiceover man tells us it's about to start. Lights down, anticipation up.Block 106.00pm:Phil Schiller - who has stood in for Jobs on previous occasions - apepars to be sitting a couple of seats in front of me. (I can only see the back of his head, but it looks like him).Doesn't appear that he's presenting today - will we see his Steveness?Block 116.02pm:Yes, we do. Looking very thin and a little worse for wear, Jobs comes on stage. A rapturous standing ovation follows.Block 126.04pm:The cheering and clapping has gone on for a good minute or so. Jobs, dressed in trademark black top and blue jeans, starts talking."I am VERY happy to be here today with you all. As some of you may know, about five months ago I had a liver transplant - so I now have the liver of a mid 20s person who died in a car crash and donated his organs. And I wouldn't be here without such generosity. So I hope all of us can be as generous and elect to become organ donors.""I'd like to take a moment to thank everybody in the Apple community," he says, adding that Tim Cook and other Apple executives ran the company well in his absence."I'm vertical, I'm back at Apple and I'm loving every day of it."Block 136.06pm:His voice appeared to be cracking for a while there on stage - but now he means business. He's done the intro and now we're on to talking about products, although he says Phil Schiller will be joining him for part of the presentation.Block 146.10pm:First it's iPhone: 30 million sold worldwide, a new 3.1 operating system available for download and boosts including application recommendations (on a similar basis to the Genius playlist) and the chance to buy ringtones straight from the store.Then he's on to iTunes. It's the No1 music retailer in the world, he says, and there are 100 million accounts now open on the store. With a zen-like smile, he announces iTunes version 9: "we've cleaned it up a bit, made it much easier to navigate around".Block 156.15pm:He's running through the new features of iTunes 9, pacing from side to side as if nothing had ever happened. These include Genius mixes - creating radio-like playlists that you parcel up similar tunes - and synchronisation options. Better sharing around the home and a redesigned iTunes store.This is hardly revolutionary stuff, just the most incremental of incremental improvements. Still, he takes the chance of some respite during a round of applause to swig from a bottle of water.Block 166.18pm:Just as expected, he's now outlining a new selection of features called iTunes LP, that adds videos, liner notes, lyrics and other extras that you get if you download an entire album rather than just single tracks."Unfortunately most of that stuff left us went to CDs and even more so when we went to digital music," he says. The irony, of course, is that iTunes and Apple has been one of the biggest forces in encouraging the single-track download.An Apple dude comes on to demo, while Jobs takes a break. He comes and plants himself three rows in front of me, sitting back and keeping pretty quiet. His return is going to be the big story, by the looks of it - because, so far, this is pretty pedestrian in terms of product advances.Block 176.20pm:DJHworld in the comments says that the3.1 iPhone update isn't available yet. Hold your horses! They don't usually become available until after these events finish.As expected, we also discover that social networking extras have been incorporated into iTunes as well, allowing you to post about things you like from iTunes to Facebook and Twitter. Yes! I've always wanted a chance to make my expressions of unbridled joy in great art to be as simple as a single click!Block 186.28pm:In the comments,SilentRunningpoints out that Wired is reporting that theUS Apple website has dropped iPod prices. Well, that's US prices - nothing in the UK yet. And then he takes the time to chide us for not writing about it. Completely fair: sorry, next time I'll try balancing a ball on my nose while clapping as well.Block 19Demo over, Jobs comes back on stage for a few seconds to hand over to Phil Schiller. In a puff of smoke (not literally, you lot) he's gone again. Schiller, who always reminds me - somewhat bizarrely - of a big cuddly bear when he climbs up in front of the crowd, starts talking up the iPod's success.The iPod Touch, he says, is now the fastest-selling iPod, with more than 20m sold. Why? He suggests that it's not only a great music and video player, but that it also a handy pocket computer, wherever you can get on a Wi-Fi network at least, and a games machine too. Something coming up here?Block 206.38pm:While Schiller hits his sales pitch - which includes a sly dig at Nintendo and Sony, which "seemed cool" when they came out - I'm scanning around the audience to see who else is here.Look: it's Google chief executive Eric Schmidt - who's reclined in his chair, watching with his hands clasped in front of him.He might not be on Apple's board any more, but he's obviously still an interested party.Perhaps he's pondering how to compete with the iPhone, particularly with the launch of the new Motorola Android handset due tomorrow.Block 216.45pm:A chirpy young fellow from Ubisoft comes on stage to show off Assassin's Creed 2 for the iPhone, which (unsurprisingly) ditches the insanely rich graphics of the console version if favour of a little sideways scroller that's got a sort of mid 90s PlayStation One vibe about it.Then the boss of Tapulous comes along to show off, Riddim Ribbon, a new music game they're about to launch. "You'll be racing down a ribbon, and your job is to follow the groove". He's talking about that literally; you move the iPod from side to side, trying to keep the music going by sticking to the middle of the road and getting new bits of the mix dropping into the music as you progress. Looks like fun.This is all nice, and everything - but I'm reminded of Apple's World Wide Developers Conference earlier this year, when we had to sit and endure an exhausting set of demos by application developers. They're OK, but it still seems rather beside the point.And you start to wonder: is anything actually going to happen in iPod land?Block 226.50pm:Phew; just two more demos - Gameloft's first-person shooter Nova - and then Electronic Arts showing off Madden NFL 10 for the iPhone (what, no Fifa?).Down in the comments, SoftlyDoesIt sums up the feeling here (or at least in my seat) by saying "Yaaawwwnnn. This ain't rock 'n' roll". Too right. I want to see Steve Jobs on stage with a guitar, throwing it into the crowd and then smashing up the drum kit.Meanwhile,Urbanbumpkinhas some info on the appearance of Heroes star Greg Grunberg, mentioned earlier."He is the co-creator of an iPhone coupon app called Yowza - Only available in the US at the mo, but soon to be in the UK too I think". That explains it. I was rather hoping that he'd do something with the Band From TV (I've got their album, I'm ashamed to say).Block 236.54pm:The iPod Touch, he announces, is dropping in price to $199 for the 8GB, $299 for a 32GB model and $399 for a whopping 64GB. We'll have UK prices as soon as possible.Meanwhile, the iPod shuffle is dropping in price to $59 for 2GB and in a range of new colours. Bah. I was hoping they'd kill the shuffle entirely (at least the button-free version, which is a weird little freak of a machine).Block 246.59pm:And with that, Schiller says "That's it for the new iPods" and turns it back to Steve Jobs. What? Nothing going on with cameras? No new models elsewhere?But we do have one more thing, he says.Thank goodness."A video camera".Block 257.02pm:Jobs explains that the small video camera market - the sort of thing embodied by, say, the Flip, is something that Apple wants to get into. "We're going to build a video camera into the new iPod nano: on the back is a video camera and a microphone built right in."It's got one-click YouTube uploading.The size of the nano itself doesn't seem to have shifted, but the question is how good it is. A boxed demo is certainly pretty nice quality - but the devil will be in using it like most people do, quickly, in shaky situations with problematic sound.Block 267.04pm:Oh, and there's an FM radio built in too - but he skims over that pretty quickly; no surprise given Apple's long-term reticence to admit that customers might want one in their iPods.No word on the stats behind the camera, but he says it's got a slightly larger screen at 2.2 inches. Two models: 8GB for $149 and 16GB for $179, all on sale today. That's definitely a very competitive shot at this market, and perhaps takes the iPod nano further into new territory. It will be interesting if, at some point in the future, they actually go ahead with the rumoured iPhone nano. This could be a handy stepping stone.Block 277.05pm:We'll give you UK prices as soon as we have them.With that, it's done. Jobs - not quite triumphant on his return, but certainly unfazed by taking the stage after his life-saving surgery - finishes up things by introducing Nora Jones, while much of the crowd gets ready to file out.Block 287.20pm:OK, those prices.iPod shuffle: 2GB for £45iPod nano: 8GB for £115 and 16GB for £135.iPod touch: 8GB for £149, 32GB for £229 and 64GB for £299Block 297.37pm:So, to sum up: nothing unexpected, really, and - as we already knew - no Beatles.Looking back at Charles's prediction at 4.39pm, we hit somewhere close to the lowball expectation end of the event - no Sir Paul, no Ringo, no Beatles and no iTunes subscriptions. But we did get Steve Jobs, new iTunes and iPods sporting cameras (although not the iPod touch, intriguingly).Jobs was the big talking point, really, and although he took it fairly easy - no surprise for somebody who is now sporting liver 2.0 - he certainly seemed up for the challenge.I meanwhile, discovered that my jumper was hotter than expected and that my laptop battery runs out REALLY quickly at crucial moments (thanks Apple lady, for not letting me plug it in, that was really nice of you).Thanks for all your comments. Until next time.
On Wednesday evening, UK time, Apple released an upgrade to its iPod line. But amid the inevitable hype surrounding its careful marketing and intentional secrecy about the content of the launch, a different truth is emerging: that we are seeing the twilight of the stand-alone digital music player (DMP), a product category only just over 10 years old.That does not mean that digital music players will vanish. Quite the opposite: the sector is still growing. Increasingly, though, the products have some sort of connectivity – whether Wi-Fi, mobile phone, Bluetooth or all three.But if you look closely enough, the signs that the stand-alone player is in decline are all around. The first, and most obvious, was Apple's announcement in its latest quarterly results that iPod sales fell year-on-year for the first time since the product's launch in October 2001. As the iPod dominates the market for DMPs, any drop in its sales indicates a fall in the market.Next is the news that in the last week of August, Sony's Walkman DMPsoutsold the iPod in Japanfor the first time in four years . But that was against a background where sales of DMPs fell by 13.5% for the fifth month in a row; and Sony forecast that it would sell 6.7m units in the year to March 2010 – compared to 7m sold the previous year. The conclusion? The market for those DMPs is falling. By contrast, in July the launch of the new iPhone 3GS at the same time theiPhone was the most popular phone in Japan.Then there is Microsoft's decision to drop older versions of its Zune music player, which despite having Wi-Fi connectivity (unlike all iPods, except the iPod Touch) has failed to make an impact on the North American market, the only place it is sold. The Zune has been close to an embarrassment to Microsoft, losing money and never living up to expectations, with sales dropping 42% in the last quarter – though the company hopes for better from its next, touchscreen Zune HD.And finally, there is the forecast byIn-Stat, a consumer-analysis company, which suggests that the market for stand-alone DMPs peaked in value last year at $21.8bn and "will slow considerably over the next five years". It reckons that the market's growth fell below 10% at the end of 2008 for the first time since the Saehan "MPMan" player, able to store 32MB of data, went on sale in 1998. Soon after Diamond Multimedia started selling the Rio PMP300.Download downturnThat in turn carries serious risks for the music industry, which for some time has surfed along on the iPod sales boom, warns Mark Mulligan, vice-president of the global media practice at the analysis companyForrester Research. Digital music downloads have been driven by DMP sales growth. But what happens when that growth slows? Logically, digital music sales – which the music industry had hoped would replace CD sales – slow down too."There's a really, really important point that we have been trying to hammer home to the record labels for some months, which is: what happens to music sales as device sales start to slow? Apple is 75%-80% of the music download market. Its fortunes are explicitly tied to iPod sales. And even before the last quarter, if you do a simple calculation – assuming a two-year replacement cycle for each iPod, and calculate the installed base – then you discover that the installed base of iPods stopped growing in 2007." Mulligan puts the total installed base at roughly 110m at the end of 2008.He explains that 2005 was the "liftoff" year for iPod sales, and for the installed base to grow beyond that would require a "massive" sales surge – which is not happening. Instead, people are turning to the iPod Touch and iPhone; and those people are not buying as many tracks as iPod-only buyers.But the music industry has had a troubled relationship with DMPs through their lives. In 1998 the first reaction of theRecording Industry Association of America(RIAA), representing US record labels, to the Rio was to sue Diamond Multimedia because it could be used to play illicit copies of music. (A judge dismissed the case in October 1998.) The next was to ignore it: in 1998 Nick Raymonde, then the A&amp;R (artists and repertoire) director at BMG Music, one of the biggest music companies, said in an interview that MP3 "is not a particularly good format technically" and "I don't really see a lot of kids walking around with MP3 players yet". He's probably seeing it now. And MP3 has remained the dominant format for storing music, with Amazon and other online retailers adopting it – forced principally by Apple's blanket refusal to use the Windows Media Audio format.The iPod's arrival, with its click-wheel access to huge numbers of songs (5,000 on the first 5GB hard drive model), galvanised the market, which began to take off. By July 2006, a study byDigital Life Americaand Canada-based Fast Forward found 28% of Americans aged 12 and over had a DMP – up from 12% the previous year – with sales growing fastest among women. The iPod had a 68% US market share, up from 53% in 2005, with Creative Labs a distant second with 6%; dozens of other manufacturers with shares no larger than 3% made up the other 26%.But now that market has matured – or become saturated. It is no longer enough simply to play music (or, as non-iPod devices often can, have an FM tuner and voice recorder). Connectivity is now the key.There's wealth in wirelessAccording to Stephanie Ethier, a consumer devices analyst at In-Stat, the slowdown in the stand-alone market is caused by "market maturity, a weak economy and competition from other multimedia handhelds – primarily mobile phones". She believes the total market for personal media players (a category that includes Wi-Fi-enabled devices such as the iPod Touch, Zune and Sony's new X-series Walkman) will grow from 200m in 2007 to 245m in 2012 – but of that, 21%, or 52m, will have Wi-Fi. That means 193m sold without, a fall compared to 2007. And the value of those 193m will be below that in 2007, as storage gets cheaper and the market commoditises.Apple, again, clearly recognised that with its launch in September 2007 of the iPod Touch – essentially, the iPhone with the phone and Bluetooth systems taken out, but Wi-Fi left in. Since its launch, the iPod Touch has sold 18.6m units worldwide – compared to 26.4m units of the iPhone, launched three months earlier.That connectivity though means that the complexities of the device – and the need for good user interface design – are suddenly much higher. Wi-Fi means email and web browsing become possible, if not obligatory, and the idea that you might be able to do even more with the device – as the iPhone and iPod Touch have demonstrated through Apple's online App Store, selling 65,000 different applications – raises the bar for those in the market. As Michael Gartenberg, a consumer analyst at the research company Interpret, says: "Let's face it. app stores are table stakes for mobile platforms today. If you don't have one, you're not even in the game."Building up interestIt's easier for mobile phone companies to consider building an app store, because they know how their handsets work. But they have the challenge of working out how to make any revenue from them, and designing them so that people want to use them to download applications. RIM, with the BlackBerry platform, Palm, Nokia (with the Ovi store) and of course Apple.But Mulligan warns that for the record industry, this brings all sorts of dangers which won't help sell more songs. "The iPhone, iPod Touch, devices like that, are basically vanilla products where the owner adds apps to customise it." Then they can use it for navigation and games, not necessarily songs. Hence the necessity for the record industry to push schemes such as Nokia's Comes With Music, where handset buyers get free music for a year, or Universal's download deal with Virgin Media."I don't think Comes With Music would have been licensed three years ago," says Mulligan. "But the record labels understand that [digital sales to iPods] isn't enough. There's no hockey-stick upturn in digital downloads. They're pretty much having to go with anything that the market comes to them with – Spotify, whatever. And they have a clear need to be forcing product innovation. The album format was devised in 1909. It hasn't changed since."The product rumoured before Wednesday night was the "iTablet" – a tablet computer being developed by Apple with record labels. "I've learnt never to second-guess Apple," Mulligan says. "But if you had things like interviews and apps and music on a touchscreen netbook – that would be an ideal format. That's just what the music industry needs."With the iPod – increasingly key to Apple's growth – now glimpsing its end, there will be pressure on Apple too to revitalise its offerings. But will Wednesday night's launches have been enough?
Now this is seriously exciting:New Scientist is reportingthat a research team in Bristol has raised the money to build robots made of slime. More accurately, a team led by the University of the West of England'sAndy Adamatzkyis planning to create a programmable plasmodium slime mould that willperform certain actions when stimulated by light and electricity. NotquiteTransformers, but Adamatskytold Discoverythat it could be a breakthrough thanks to the mould's "naturally embedded intelligence".
It's been arocky year for the nascent American electric car maker Tesla, but the company - headed by Praetorian polymathElon Musk- plans to extend its reach in Europe by opening a new sales and service centre in Munich later this week. Probably helps that Daimler, the German maker of Mercedes, holds a significant stake in Tesla - but the move also follows on from the firm's London store (it's in Knightsbridge, just a champagne cork's pop away from Harrod's) and the scheduled opening of another spot in Monaco. Two questions: has anyone been to the London location? And while these exclusive locations are perfect for Tesla's sporty Roadster models, will they help push the slightly-lower-down-the-scaleModel S?
Hello, it's Wednesday. Guess what massive EA game is released today? That's right - Ultima Online: Stygian Abyss! Oh and something with The Beatles in.
Rumours that Apple is preparing to offer Beatles tracks for download have been thoroughly quashed, after a senior figure at record label EMI said that a deal had not been made.The Californian technology company is expected to unveil a selection of new iPods later on Wednesday, but widespread speculation has focused on the possibility that it will also unveil a deal to buy Beatles tracks online.That rumour, which arose largely because the timing coincides with the release of the Beatles remastered back catalogue, has been the subject of hundreds of reports without any firm evidence to back it up.However Ernesto Schmitt, a senior executive at EMI in charge of the company's global back catalogs, gave a categorical denialto the Financial Times yesterday."Conversations between Apple and EMI are ongoing and we look forward to the day when we can make the music available digitally. But it's not tomorrow," he said.Those comments did not quell the rumours entirely, however – particularly after Sky Newsbriefly ran a reportin which Yoko Ono was quoted as saying that Beatles downloads would be among the iPod maker's announcements.That report was quickly deleted without explanation, but not before the information had been picked up by a number of blogs – leaving them to speculate further.If the deal were to take place, it would mark a remarkable turnaround from the group - which has kept its music away from legal download services for years.The relationship between the computer company and the band has been tumultuous over the years, not least because of their long-running legal battle over the use of the Apple brand. But afterthat case was finally settled, Sir Paul McCartney has said that he no longer objects to allowing downloads of the group's music -telling the Observer recentlythat "I want to do it, we all want to do it".But with EMI not yet agreeing terms with Apple, the company is instead expected to show off a number of other advances when it hosts its annual event in San Francisco on Wednesday.Instead, Apple is expected to unveil new iPod models sporting new features and lower prices, as well as a new codenamed "Cocktail" which will allow to download extra – such as sleevenotes and pictures – when they download an entire album instead of a selection of individual tracks.
Google's battle to digitise millions of copyrighted books has taken another blow, after rival technology giant Microsoft lodged a brief with an American court that called the proposals "illegitimate".In thefiling delivered to the southern district court of New York- which is examining the proposed $125m deal that would give Google the right to digitise millions of in-copyright books - Microsoft called the scheme "an unprecedented misuse of the judicial system".The case revolves around a deal brokered between Google and US publishers and authors over the search giant's scheme to scan millions of books and make them available online. The groups initially sued Google over breach of copyright, butlast year the Californian company agreed to pay $125m and share any proceedsas a way to settle the case.The controversial element, however, has arisen because the case was filed as a class action on behalf of all US copyright holders: meaning that if it is given the court's stamp of approval, Google will get the right to digitse any book published in the United States – unless the book's author chose to opt out.Microsoft, which is Google's major rival in a number of areas and has joined a group that is critical of the deal, said there were many problems with the settlement."No one can object to the laudable goal of creating universal and broadly accessible repositories of digital books," said the document. "The proposed settlement, on the other hand, pursues an illegitimate approach.  Following closed-door negotiations that excluded millions of copyright owners and the very public that copyright law serves, Google and the plaintiffs seek to arrogate public policymaking to themselves, bypass Congress and the free market, and force a sweeping joint venture."Echoing arguments made by other critics,including AmazonandEuropean regulators, the Seattle software giant added a scathing rebuttal of Google's deal."A class action settlement is the wrong mechanism, this court is the wrong venue and monopolisation is the wrong means to carry out the worthy goal of digitising and increasing the accessibility of books."Critics of the settlement say it unfairly co-opts thousands or millions of authors and publishers into handing over their rights – even if they have never heard of the deal before.Google and its allies, meanwhile, argue that thereare no competitive concerns and that public good will come from the agreement.The closing date for opinions to the court passed on Tuesday, after the deadline was extended twice by judge Denny Chin. The case is ongoing.
&bull; It's B-day - the moment when The Beatles: Rock Band finally goes on sale. It's a much anticipated title that gota five star review from us... and given that combining Lennon and McCartney with this video game stuff means it covers pretty much every demographic that media outlets care about, expect blanket coverage from every angle.&bull; The plan announced by T-Mobile and Orangeto merge their UK operationshas sent shockwaves rippling through the mobile world - felt keenly by consumer groups,which are asking for an investigation into whether the deal would damage competition.&bull; This may well be old news to you, but I was reminded of it after linking to the great littleCanabaltgame last week. Electronic Arts produced a2D Flash version of Mirror's Edgefor promotional purposes - and it's a great little platformer if you're looking to kill a few minutes.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
In what looks set to be the most successful console relaunch ever (well, since the Mega Drive 2 at least) sales of Sony's PlayStation 3 console have skyrocketed since the release of the new PS3 slim last week.ChartTrack, though not supplying specific numbers, have confirmed a 1000% increase in week-on-week sales of the console. The PS3 Slim outsold the Xbox 360 and Wii, consoles it had previously lagged behind, by a ratio of 3:1.Initial reports on severalreputable gaming websitessuggest sales have comfortably passed the half a million mark worldwide (despite arather odd advertising campaign in Japan).While the 1000% increase would have been boosted somewhat by gamers anticipating the new version's release and holding off on buying the old console, this is still great news for Sony and what has been until this point a beleaguered machine. If the sales boost can keep going until Christmas, Microsoft and Nintendo could have a real fight on their hands.It begs the question however - if all these gamers have had a few hundred quid burning a hole in their pocket all this time, doesn't the Slim's success provide even more proof that the original PS3's pricing and release were somewhat misguided?
A few days ago, iPhone developerManomioreleased its fully licensedCommodore 64 emulatoronto the App Store. Unfortunately, it's been taken down for a few days while the team sorts out a bug which allows users to access the old computer's BASIC programing language; the dev team included this in its original submission to Apple, but had to remove it before publication for some reason. However, in true Hot Coffee fashion, it wasn't removed enough. Now hopefully it is, as Manomio has re-submitted. Soon we shall have C64 goodness wherever we go.Developed with the blessing ofCommodore Gaming B.V, the emu features original graphics, SID chip music, vertical or fullscreen modes and an onscreen virtual joystick. It comes with five free games - Dragons Den, Le Mans, Jupiter Lander, Arctic Shipwreck and Jack Attack. These were, I seem to recall, published by Commodore itself when the machine was first launched. Apparently, further games will be released as App Packs when the rights are secured.Hurray for legal emulation. Now, which C64 games will work really well on a portable screen with touch controls?
Bill Wyman, the former Rolling Stones bass player, has criticised music video games like Rock Band and Guitar Hero, claiming they will lead to fewer young people taking up real instruments."It encourages kids not to learn, that's the trouble. It makes less and less people dedicated to really get down and learn an instrument"."I think it's a pity," he said, speaking at Abbey Road studios while recording a charity Beatles song for Children in Need.His concerns were echoed by Pink Floyd's Nick Mason, who described the games as "an interesting new development".Pink Floyd had not ruled out working on one in the future as a new way of selling music. But, he added: "It irritates me having watched my kids do it. If they spend as much time practising the guitar as learning how to press the buttons, they'd be damn good by now".The news comes on the eve of the release of The Beatles: Rock Band game, which allows players to play along as The Beatles through their career in environments such as The Cavern Club in Liverpool, and Shea Stadium, the home of the New York Mets.But Alex Rigopulos, co-founder of Harmonix Music Systems, which created the Rock Band series, refuted the musicians' claims."We're constantly hearing from fans who were inspired by Rock Band to start studying a real instrument," he said.
Oops, sorry. My fault. Tomorrow's is going up at 8am, so this is a sort of quickie for night owls and early risers.
This week we have a pair of fascinating interviews from two technological thinkers at the top of their game.First upKevin Andersonspeaks to the writer and communication pioneerHoward Rheingold, doyen of virtual communities and author of the influential tome Smart Mobs.ThenKevintalks to interface designerAza Raskin, ofMozilla Labs- the place where the creators of Firefox work on new, experimental projects.Plus,Bobbie Johnsoncatches up with all the week's tech news and your posts.Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
If you get your broadband from O2, and have a router from O2, you have a problem. A very serious problem. According to a report by Paul Mutton,an O2 customer who has tried repeatedly to get O2 to take some notice of the vulnerability,The O2 Wireless Box III (a customised Thomson TG585n router) is an ADSL modem and wireless router used by O2 Broadband customers. Two weeks ago, I discovered a serious security vulnerability that allows remote attackers to access a home user's private network and view/change settings on the router.a remote attacker can:Steal the router's wireless encryption key (even if WPA2 is enabled).List all internal IP addresses being used on the home network.Forward external ports to those internal IP addresses, allowing remote access to individual home computers.... plus much more!The details are complex - it depends on "cross-site request forgery" (which personally I'd never heard of before).This is serious, and you should indeed Worry. If you have an O2-supplied ADSL router, it would make sense (as it always has) to (a) change the default password (b) check that O2 hasn't changed it remotely back - as Andrew Brown has discovered, to his fright.(To clarify, it is therouter adminpassword that you should change, not your wireless network password.)And how many might be affected? According to Mutton,I'm not entirely sure how many users are affected by this problem, but it could be quite a lot. O2 has 457,000 fixed broadband customers as at 30 June 2009 [source: O2 PR], most of which will probably be using a Wireless Box II or III (these are the only routers currently offered to home users of O2 Broadband).Zen Broadband and Bedidrespond though to find out whether the routerstheysupply might be affected.O2 has apparently been making some remote updates:So, O2 has applied a remote update to their Wireless Boxes which sets the password to the box's serial number. This does indeed mitigate the problem to some extent, but it does not remove the risk completely. The software release is still identified as 8.2.L.0 andit is still vulnerable to CSRF. The proofs of concept that I demonstrated to O2 (and several other ISPs) still work without further user interaction providing you have recently logged in to your router.The solution? There isn't a simple one. (It would be interesting to know how many other routers on the market are vulnerable to this, though, and whether Thomson - which makes it - has updated its firmware at all to deal with it - or whether firmware is O2's responsibility.) We'll aim to speak to O2 later to find out what it is really doing.Update:Here's the email that Be sent to its customers. (Ta, Keith Emmerson.)We want to let you know that we've recently been informed of a security problem that could affect the BE Box, among other routers. Essentially, the problem could allow somebody to change your router settings, and nobody wants that. For you tech savvies, we've included more details at the bottom of this email.Here's what we're doing:We want everyone to be protected - even the people who don't read this email, so, we've decided to automatically update the password for everyone. It will be unique to each user: we are running a script to change the password to the individual serial number on your BE Box (found on the bottom of the router). If you want to change it after that, go here for a guide: https://www.bethere.co.uk/web/beportal/beboxpasswordJust to be clear, we aren't changing the wireless key - it's the password to the administrator web interface. That's the only change we will.or would.make.We will be starting to run this script first thing Monday 7th September, if you don't want us to do it (although we do recommend it), you can stop us by either:a)    Downloading and running the tool here:http://www.beusergroup.co.uk/downloads/BEBox_OptOut.exeb)    Following the manual guide here:http://www.beusergroup.co.uk/technotes/index.php/How_To_Fully_Secure_The_BeboxThe Techie Stuff: The BE Box is vulnerable to an XSS (cross-site scripting) combined with a CRSF (cross-site request forgery) that allows a remote attacker to perform actions on the Web UI (user interface), via the use of JavaScript - and without the user's knowledge or consent.In the short term, in order to stop this from occurring we are going to set the password on everyone's BE Box.After we've done this, if someone tries to attack your router, you will be prompted to enter your Administrator Password. Don't do it, otherwise the attack will be successful. (We'd like to think that most people wouldn't enter their username and password for a random unexpected login prompt)In the long run we're working with Thomson to improve the firmware'sresilience to such attacks.Do take note of that penultimate paragraph: remote attacks will lead to an unexpected demand for your router admin password. You shouldn't ever get that unless you're asking for it. So beware, and be aware. Good to se Be being cautious on this. It seems O2 has been doing the same thing - hence people finding their admin passwords abruptly changing.
&bull; File this one under "so ridiculous it sounds like it's made up": two Australian girls trapped in a storm draindecided to call for help by changing their Facebook status, rather than phoning the police, reportsABC News. A fire service spokesman in Adelaide said he was concerned about "relying on someone being online and replying to them and eventually having to call us via 000 anyway". Too right.&bull; With Apple's latest secret launch taking place tomorrow,AppleInsideris reporting thattechnical issues could delay the possible addition of a camera to many iPod models. A similar report byHardmac, which it categorised as a rumour, suggestsearly iPod touch units with problems have been put aside.&bull; Sad news, if you hadn't heard it, that O'Reilly Publishing's always-interesting Emerging Technology conferenceis no more. At this year's event, Inoted things were unusually quiet- but it was actually a pretty interesting, varied program. I'm disappointed to see it go.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
In among all the party games and cutesy characters it is sometimes easy to forget that the Wii also does traditional gaming too. Metroid Prime Trilogy is a perfect example.The package contains the three Prime games, with the initial two titles appearing on the Wii for the first time. The original Metroid Prime for the Nintendo's pre-Wii console, the Gamecube, was a revelation. While it was viewed in the first person, this was a world away from the traditional first-person shooter.Instead the action was more cerebral, less frenetic. By involving as much scanning – the game is viewed from behind a helmet visor, giving you the ability, among others, to scan items – as shooting, this felt like a first person adventure.The move to 3D aside, the Prime games did retain many of the features that made the original 2D Metroid titles from the 80s and 90s so fondly remembered. So players guide female action hero Samus through an increasingly testing environment as she fends off enemies and gathers the tools needed to advance. The latter is crucial. Much of the game is blocked off until you have the right item – missiles etc – that allow you to retrace your steps and move forward. Recent titles like Shadow Complex show how relevant this style of gameplay still is. The first two Prime games in particular are a reminder of when games were tough, and tricky boss battles and lack of assistance were common.Take a week or two away from the game and it becomes difficult to return. All those blocked pathways which you had made a mental note to return too have long since faded from memory. The third title, Corruption, is more action focused but is still aimed squarely at core gamers. Trilogy sees the first two games (originally for the Gamecube) adapted to the Wii controls that were used with the third game. Due to the fiddly wiimote system, most first-person games fail to shine on the Wii. The Metroid games are an exception though, with the controls working well – probably due to the lesser emphasis on straight-out shooting. Going back to the rather clunky Gamecube controls would feel a backward step now.With literally tens of hours of gameplay Metroid Trilogy can't be faulted when it comes to value for money. Hardcore fans may be disappointed by the lack of new content and new controls aside there isn't much to tempt them. But if you fancy a meaty challenge for your Wii then Metroid Prime Trilogy is a fine place to start.
Colin McRae's untimely death marked the end of not just a great driver but also one of gaming's most successful sports franchises. So how would it fare without the man who put Codemasters on the sporting map?In fairness, the franchise had been showing diminishing returns long before 2007, one reason why the original Dirt took a radical detour away from boggy, rain-soaked rally courses into the world of "gnarly" extreme racing, and the sequel takes this approach to a new level.Dirt 2 borrows from everything from Burnout's collisions and slow-mo jumps to Grand Theft Auto's mobile phone conversations that create a convincing lifestyle that fill the gaps between the game's hundreds of available races, add-ons and seven car categories. As for McRae, only occasional respectful comments and his familiar Imprezza STI suggest he was ever involved in the proceedings.So yes, this is very much an American game, complete with relentless emo soundtrack, cheery commentary and a massive range of racing events; from rallying to off-road, rally cross, "throwdown" challenges against other drivers, gatecrasher and last man standing – each with their own objectives, points and cash prizes. New cars, liveries, hood ornaments etc are unlocked at the end of every successful race and cars can be tuned up to make the most of the circuit – albeit more to the extent of Burnout than Gran Turismo.The single player World Tour takes you from one end of the globe to the other, pitting you against named drivers like Dave Mirra plus your usual array of NPC creations. With a choice of four cockpit angles and as many difficulty settings, Dirt 2  always looks sharp, and the races are fast and physical, particularly in the impressive stadia events. And, by way of innovation, there's a VR trailer where you can choose and preview races and an excellent instant replay feature that allows you to restart from any point in a race.On the downside, the rallying events are easily the weakest part – mainly featuring dumbed-down, one-stage affairs with none of the tension of shaving fractions off each sector. Even the precise 6-point turn ratings have now been replaced by a simpler "easy, medium or hard" warning from your co-driver. It's a shame, really, as with McRae's name still on the box you'd expect Britain's most idiosyncratic contribution to racing culture to stand a little taller. But that's it for quibbles, really – Dirt 2 is a dazzling display of speed, variety and innovation. It doesn't have the anal levels of precision McRae brought to the original games, but if you like your racing short, sweet and very loud, Dirt 2 is a good lace to start looking.
You could argue that the build-up to the Christmas videogames crescendo starts right here: The Beatles Rock Band is the first blockbuster of the year and has been gathering plenty of mainstream attraction.As well it might: The Beatles remain the biggest band ever, and the idea of being able to emulate them, regardless of musical talent, is gloriously attractive. Happily, The Beatles Rock Band does eminent justice to their much-loved repertoire. If you've played a previous incarnation of Rock Band or Guitar Hero, mind, you'll know what to expect: the ability to play along to Beatles tracks on bass, guitar or drums; for the first time in such a game, up to three people can sing along, too, sharing lead and harmony duties. A basic but handy tutorial helps goes a small way towards demystifying the complexities of those harmonies, although it won't help you much if you're tone-deaf.The new instruments are beautifully made: Paul's Hofner Violin Bass, noticeably, is longer than previous instrument-accessories, although not actually as long as its real-life counterparts. The Beatles Rock Band also deserves plaudits for being the first version of the franchise that will work with Guitar Hero instruments. Where the game really scores, though, are in its visuals – previous Rock Bands and Guitar Heroes have purveyed a dingy, grungy look, but The Beatles Rock Band looks absolutely lush, with clever montages detailing the different ages and visual identities of the band, and the backgrounds to the gigs you play really managing to evoke a feeling of vicarious Beatles membership. Working through the game, you play the Cavern, the Ed Sullivan Show, the legendary Shea Stadium gig and a concert at Budokan, before settling down to three  sessions in Abbey Road's Studio 2.Proceedings are topped off with a reconstruction of the rooftop Apple building gig. So-called dreamscapes make many of the Abbey Road tracks a distinctly psychedelic experience. Many of the classic Beatles tracks are included – there are 45 in all, and loads more will become available for downloading – as well as some lesser-known gems, such as the surprisingly heavy psych-rock of Hey Bulldog, which surely would have been a massive hit if released by another band. The joy of playing along to Beatles songs is deeply infectious and, given that up to six people can play at once (which would require a very large room), The Beatles Rock Band provides one of the most sociable gaming experiences ever.Purists may be disappointed that George and John's guitar lines have been amalgamated, but Harmonix simply couldn't figure out how to fit two guitar lines plus bass on screen. Overall, though, as befits its subject matter, The Beatles Rock Band brings a new level of coherence as a game to its genre, as well as an altogether higher quality level.
I last played Monopoly with my sister, her boyfriend and some friends over a year ago. We started happily enough, but it soon became clear my sibling's partner was an even more unscrupulous businessman thanCyril Sneer. His combination of a voracious appetite for property, an inclination towards punitive taxes and, crucially, control of the bank meant the game lasted about 30 minutes before I was forced out, homeless, with no business interests and entirely empty pocketed.But when I played the new online version this morning I was free from such a driven competitor.Monopoly City Streets, a link up between game owners Hasbro and Google Maps, launches on Wednesday for a four-month period. It enables one, in theory, to buy any street in the world.New players are given no less than 3m Monopoly dollars – a far cry from the £200 clutch of brightly coloured notes of yore – to build their empire. If you get in first, you can buy the street straight away. If you're beaten to it, you can make the owner an offer. If they don't reply in seven days, this offer is automatically accepted, no matter how contemptible it may be. (Cue the obligatory "So make sure you log in everyday!" order in the instructions that accompany the game).Finding the main urban areas of Manchester, Birmingham and London already snapped up, I decided to be influenced by nostalgia rather than greed, and switched focus to my home town of Preston.In lieu of thecurrently ailing development plansin the self-professed administrative hub of Lancashire, I immediately took the initiative in a way that real developers are failing to do and snapped up Fishergate, the main street inEngland's newest city. Paying $1,140,000 for this prime real estate represented solid value, and to celebrate I immediately built an obnoxiously tall skyscraper.With that property earning $288,000 dollars a day in rental income – a variant of the online game is that a landowner is automatically paid rent, rather than waiting for some poor unfortunate to visit your street before cashing in – I turned my attention to the leafy suburb of Penwortham, or as the game has decided to call it, "Penworthamdale".Having spent my childhood tearing up and down Liverpool Road in Penwortham(dale) on my Raleigh Wolf, it was with a feeling of immense pride that I returned to buy the street outright, and immediately commissioned the building of a castle. Liverpool Road in real life boasts 11 hairdressers and five estate agents in a 100-metre stretch, but is distinctly lacking in afortified defensive structure. Not now.As nice as it is to construct wildly improbable premises around areas you're familiar with, and see the structures displayed on the Google Maps format, putting up buildings and watching the rent roll in could become quite dull. Thus, the online game encourages conflict between land barons by sporadically offering "Chance Cards" where players are given the option to bulldoze properties lovingly built by other land barons, or construct sewage works or prisons on rivals' streets, lowering their rental income. Perhaps there's a place for my sister's boyfriend after all.I was in a rather benevolent mood when I was invited to flatten a fellow player's property – how many people own a castle, after all? – but for the purposes of research destroyed a magnificent 15m-Monopoly-dollar property recently constructed in Blackpool by an erstwhile opponent.This is all very well, and the satisfying graphic of ademolition ballswiftly assuaged any guilt, whilst cementing my position as the top property-dog in Lancashire.But the problem is the game shows players exactly who has been trying to ruin their empire.I now have an enemy. A rich enemy. What does that mean for the future of the castle? Are Preston and Penwortham(dale) to be beset by an evil tycoon, hell-bent on dismantling the friendly fiefdom I've worked so hard (three or four clicks of the mouse) to develop?Scary. Very scary.
'Better late than never!' goes the jaunty saying - it could conceivably have been written about Best of Chatterbox updates. This, you see, is the best of the week before last, coming at you courtesy of Apic.What it lacks in timeliness it makes up for in sheer variety. World politics, cricket and Batman all swirl into the heady mix. So with no further delay, it's time to put the kettle on, grab the chocolate biscuit box. You can have a Trio or a United, but the Tunnock's might be off the menu - see inside...Chatterbox: W/E August 28. By Apic.An incredibly early start for the box on Monday seemed to catch many regulars unawares and the usual clamouring for 'Firsts' was nowhere to be seen. Instead, the masses began trundling in a full half hour after the first post, going on to manage a paltry six pages of comments for the day. Unfortunately for me, Tuesday saw a return to form after the hangover of the weekend, with 350+ comments - most of them concerning Monster Hunter.The main story of the weekend was the triumph over the old cricketing nemesis, the French – no, wait, the Aussies – in the Ashes at Lords, and the sheer variety of places that 'boxers had celebrated this stunning victory. From Limni multitasking with watching the Chelsea game to carvalhosgonad's Thames boat ride, to Sorbicol 'relying on a dodgy mobile GPRS service to keep up to date', it seems the majority of us stopped at nothing to share in the glory of this memorable moment.Bigworv damned the victors with faint praise: "Cricket - Genius, never thought such a shoddy England side would ever turn over an Aussie team. Goodbye Freddie, thanks for the memories. Between 2003 and 2005 you were truly world class".[Im sure that's exactly how Andy Flower put it - Keef]Still, the excitement was short lived until Chubster threw us a curve ball (or its cricketing equivalent) by announcing with cryptic reasoning that he was thinking of buying an Xbox 360, even though it's a shame it doesn't have in-built Wi-Fi. The recent price drop whetted a few appetites it seems but, along with England winning the Ashes, Chub's new found love for M$ was lauded as evidence for the coming apocalypse. Be sober, be vigilant; because your adversary the devil - also known as RROD - walketh about, seeking whom he may devour…Alfboy was also seen to defect later in the week, trading his grill for a brand new Xbox and shunning the PES league in the process, to the chagrin of some and the relief of Goody, who no longer has to pester him to finish his league games.Luckily the apocalypse was postponed by Greg igniting the fanboy flames with an Unchartered 2 press release claiming the Xbox 360 wasn't powerful enough to run it. In a rare case of other GamesBlog articles influencing 'box chat (and not the other way around – has anyone else noticed the number of articles on GamesBlog that appear soon after a similar topic has been discussed in the 'box?) we all managed to have a good laugh at those railing against "XBots" and Teh Power of TEH CELL™. Some did try to bring reason into the debate but they were quickly dispatched in favour of winding up SoylentBlue.Thankfully we all seem to have mellowed since the early days when XBOX vs. PS3 was guaranteed a few posts typed ALL IN CAPS and these days our liberal Guardianista souls obviously need more weighty matters to get us riled. Luckily, the boycott of Tartan, Haggis (possibly) and Tunnock's teacakes by our Friends and Allies™ across the Pond provided us with this very reason.The fate of Abdelbaset al-Megrahi forged a definite split in blog opinion, ranging from those who believe his conviction was suspect in the first place to those who seemed to show the same level of compassion and forgiveness as the Christian families condemning his release. GettingNervous provided us with the Truth, paraphrasing from Scripture:"If the Wire, hallelujah, has taught us anything, it's that there is no such thing as justice"And ye, as the prophet Ice Cube once said, if the day is one that does not require the use of an AK, then it is good. [I'm still waiting - Keef]This lack of justice was compounded by complaints surrounding Eduardo's dive during the game against Celtic on Wednesday. 'Boxers showing a more reasoned approach than some of the more xenophobic pundits (namely Kenny "I was a character witness for Stevie 'Swan-Dive' G" Dalglish – thanks again to bigworv) by pointing out this was no longer just a 'foreign' problem (Unless you count Wales as foreign – looking at you Robbie Savage).The difference is that many 'foreigners' don't see it as cheating. In Italy, the use of furbizia (cunning) is all part of the beautiful game, and this goes for 'simulation', contesting every single goal with a flurry of raised hands and vociferous complaints or pretending to look for your contact lens during five-a-side when there's five minutes left and you're winning by one goal. As Eduardo is Croatian I'm not sure where I'm going with this, but TonyHayers managed to put the complaints against the dive into perspective with his usual reasoned attitude, declaring:"Celtic were never going to win that though. Poor team."And the same could be said for Liverpool against Villa on Monday night…Far be it from such abominable tactics to infest the British game, however, as we have our own traditions of hooliganism and fan violence, shown to be alive and well during a midweek clash between Millwall and West Ham. Unlike the release of a convicted Libyan terrorist, however, these actions were roundly condemned by all 'boxers and it was pointed out how far we've come since the '80s, when one stabbing at a Millwall/West Ham game would have been considered little more than handbags.Computer Games! We do talk about them and this week saw many 'boxers showing much love for the new Batman tie-in that, as Blackout commented:"…is immense, so immersive....it's an oft said cliché but you really do feel like you're Batman..."…only without having to put on the voice of Dirty Harry in a Darth Vader mask. This can only be a good thing. The demo had seen mixed reactions in the blog, but the love shown for the full game weakened many already lacking any kind of constitution and meant there was a huge, blog-lead increase in first-weekend sales. The new Il-2 Sturmovik game also had a few tongues wagging, with the prospect of blog-based dogfights stoking our inner Red Barons, and having played the demo myself I can confirm that it's looking good. After the relative disappointment of Tom Clancy's Hawx, chasing down Stukas and Junkers in a Supermarine Spitfire whilst shouting "Chocks Away" and "Have at it, Jerry" into a PSN headset is just too much to miss. I hope it works with my age-old Logitech joystick.Some love for older games was also rekindled this week after cameroon posted a very reasonable pre-order link for Modern Warfare 2 (for which I would like to extend my thanks); BeardofBees, then bigworv, NukeEater and more shocked us all by admitting they had never played the original. Reactions to these revelations were predictably vehement – an emotionally intensive singleplayer campaign and possibly one of the best multiplayer shooters out at the moment means there are few excuses for not having tried Call of Duty 4; although the £30 preowned price tag seems to be a good one, saying you can't play it because you have other games to play is not. Especially if these other games mainly involve '[smacking] monsters using awkward, cumbersome controls to collect loot. Turn loot into new toys to smack more monsters', as our resident gaming guru and Lair aficionado P-K1ng described Monster Hunter Freedom: Unite.As mentioned earlier, MHFU (as it's known to the professionals) continues to capture the hearts and minds of a diehard core of bloggers and after ignoring the posts this week referring to the game and those playing it, material for this Best Of was limited to about two pages. The final geek-up at the Gathering Hall in London's Lazarides Gallery took place this week, as from the 30th August the Hall was to be no more. Locations need to be scouted for bloggers to continue with the Sisyphean task of carving armour from monsters' hides, preferably somewhere with a Wi-Fi connection and free beer. Suggestions on a postcard please, addressed to Guardian Towers, Chatterbox, c/o OfficePest.Quotes of the Week"Went out on my bike yesterday with my son and tried to impress him by going over a dirt jump in the woods. Not the wisest of decisions at my age and I fell off and smacked my knee up. It's very uncomfortable at work this morning."Be4ch failed to note the reaction of his son to his ill-advised X-Games trials but we can only hope that it included pointing and laughter.[Or posting it on YouTube - Keef]"GCSEs: I've got 4 A*s and 7 As, who wants to touch me?Didn't lose my virginity 'til 19, mind."BeardofBees relives the unsuccessful chat-up lines of his youth.
It's Monday morning! Woo hoo! Nothing beats the raw excitement of a fresh working week, does it?If you're at a loss of what to talk about, the current top story according to videogame news aggregation site,GameTab, concerns integrated circuit manufacturer, Silicon Xtal, which hasapparentlyfiled a trademark for an adult-only video game console, dubbed 'SexBox'.
&bull; Spotify'smuch-vaunted mobile applicationis now available. My iPhone has chosen thisprecisemoment to have a heart attack and turn itself into an unusable hunk of glass and plastic. Mike Butcher atTechCrunch Europesays it'salmost identical the beta app he called "excellent", whileThe Next Websays that while"by no means flawless, what it does it does brilliantly". Any thoughts or impressions?&bull; The rumble over theGoogle Books settlementcontinues: first the judge overseeing the agreementpushed Friday's deadline back to this Tuesdaythanks to technical problems, while it's now being reported thatGoogle is prepared to give some concessions to European publishers- offering them two seats on the controversial Book Rights Registry, according to documents seen by theFinancial Times.&bull; A little bit of brilliance to go with your Monday morning coffee:these YouTube videos filmed during the space shuttle's latest missionare awe-inspiring: clips of life circling around the planet. I found it amazing, exciting and humbling all at once.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
You may have heard that Apple is planning an event this Wednesday. It's been holding a September product launch for several years now - nearly always with new iPods - but that hasn't stopped the questions from zipping around the web as Macolytes try to read the runes. What will the company unveil? Will there be new hardware? Will we see Steve Jobs in public?We'll be there later this week to find out exactly what's going on, but in the meantime, it's worth sorting through the rumours to see what stands up and what doesn't.iPodsGiven that this pre-Christmas event is traditionally the time when Apple announces iPod updates, we're almost certainly going to see something here. The invitation suggests the event is going to focus on music, but it's not unreasonable to suspect that Apple might think about boosting iPod features in other ways too.One report suggests the inclusion of a camera is coming, which woudn't shake the world by its foundations but could mark a new avenue for the gizmo.An iPod touch with built-in camera would be interesting, but it will also be intriguing to see how the longer-established iPod families - the classic model, the nano and the shuffle - move forward in a world wheresales are flatteningand the touch and the iPhone have all the momentum. Small price cuts, memory boosts and extra baubles all seem likely to keep people spending.Will the Nano or the Classic start running the iPhone OS, as suggested? I think that's less likely. Touchscreen support is expensive, and the Nano is too small to easily port the interface over.Marco Arment, the New York-based web developer who put together the iPhone appInstapaper(if you don't use it, take a look, it's very handy) makes an intriguing argument that we'll seethe death of the iPod classic, since the high-end, high capacity model now serves only a tiny portion of the market. His thinking has logic, but I think unless Apple has come up with a way for a 100GB+ flash-based model then the classic will be around for a while longer.iTunesA new iteration of iTunes seems almost equally certain, with some features intended to make the audience excited. Last year, this event is where Appleannounced the Genius tool for finding music. It could get an upgrade, but in what way?A lot of people think that iTunes 9 will have some social networking support - hooking intoFacebook, Twitter and Last.fm. Others have suggesteda subscription package- ala Spotify.All of these are possible, but I think if Apple adds social networking tools it will be the start of a larger push in that direction (since the company has largely avoided this area in the past). The idea of a subscription service has been around for years with no movement, but it could be brought in for video content as a way to encourage more usage. I expect to see iTunes 9 to be full of largely incremental advances, offering a smarter Genius, shinier chrome and better viewing experience.Beatles on iTunes:This is the rumour that won't go away: that theBeatles catalogue will be coming to iTunes. The date is certainly auspicious - the same day that The Beatles: Rock Band comes out, and the band's remastered albums are released. And Apple's September events are usually held on Tuesday, not Wednesday.But if the Beatles are really going to be part of the deal, why use a Rolling Stones song as your teaser line? Is it a double bluff? Have they really put aside their legal fights over the Apple name? I'm sceptical that Sir Paul and Ringo will change their minds.iPhone:While it's seriously unlikely that there will be any major iPhone announcementbarely a couple of months after the last one, we could see an update to the iPhone OS that would enable more features in the iPod Touch.Apple tablet computer concept Photograph: Public DomainTablet:This one has done the rounds plenty of times, butrecent reports of a large-scale touchscreen tablet in late-stage developmenthave spawned corresponding rumours thatit's on the cards this week. I've spoken to quite a few people about this, and I do not think there is chance of this one coming true on Wednesday. That doesn't mean it's not coming at all.Apple TV:Another strong contender, given how unloved Apple's set-top box has been in recent years. But that indicates to me that the most likely thing is that the Apple TV will get killed off entirely, eventually being replaced by another stab at this market - andnot get refreshed this week, as analyst Gene Munster has been predicting.Now, it's worth pointing out that most of the speculation here is just that - but I really think that given everything (the shape of Apple's product line, the history of the iPod and so on) it's going to be a case of small changes not big ones. No groundbreaking developments, just safe iterations that will convince shoppers to buy new iPods as we hit Christmas.But is there a possibility we've missed? Another idea that you think we'll see? Here's your chance to win points by correctly predicting what we'll see on Wednesday.
After decades of heavy-handed messages warning that watching pirated films and TV shows is a criminal offence, a new anti-piracy campaign aims to win over the "Generation Y-pay?" of internet users by reminding them that legal downloading supports their favourite actors and programmes.The campaign, which comes as the government looks to push through measures to crack down on illegal downloaders, is being supported by celebrities including Dominic West, star of The Wire, former EastEnders actor Tamzin Outhwaite and Strictly Come Dancing's Matt Di Angelo.The campaign will replace the "Piracy is a crime" trailers at the start of millions of DVDs rented or sold each year that likened the activity to stealing a car, handbag or TV set and threatened jail or imprisonment.Such trailers will be phased out in favour of a quirky animation that ends with a giant "Thank You" logo. In November, a new series of trailers, pushing the positive message "You Make the Movies", will appear in cinemas across the UK before the main feature presentation.The new approach, unveiled today, fronted by Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels star Nick Moran, is born out of research that shows the film and TV industry needs to offer some "carrot" to go with the "stick" to change the attitude of the web generation. The Industry Trust for IP Awareness (Itipa) says the problem is that 16-to-34-year-olds, the so-called Generation Y, has an attitude to online content that it sums up as "Generation Y-pay?"A survey has shown that while 74% of 16-to-34-year-olds agree that paying to rent or see films in daily life is right and proper, just 39% think they should pay for the same content when they are viewing the content on the internet.The campaign appeals to young people by promoting the idea that making positive, legal choices ensures their favourite shows and actors stay on screen."With the digital revolution set to open up access to more unauthorised film and TV content, it is going to be more important than ever for people to understand the positive connection they have to the British creative industries, such as film and TV," said Liz Bales, the director general of the Itipa.  "Our industry must share responsibility for showing the public the positive role they play."Film and TV is the industry that we as a nation are most proud of, the challenge is that Generation Y-pay underestimates how vital they are to funding future films and TV shows. They don't realise that without them [buying legal products] great British film and TV couldn't get made," Bales added.The campaign, called Connected to British Film and TV, includes a week of advertorials in the Sun newspaper and a website to get film and TV fans to pledge their support and find out what industry activity is happening in their local area.The timing of the campaign follows the business secretary Lord Mandelson's announcement of new laws to cut off, or at least significantly slow, the internet connections of those who are found to be illegally filesharing.The proposals, revealed last month, had previously been rejected as a step too far in Lord Carter's Digital Britain report in June.The government aims to cut illegal filesharing by 70% to 80% in the next few years, with the solution offered by Carter, who has since left the government, only going as far as recommending that pirates should receive letters warning them their activities were illegal and could leave them open to prosecution."I want to be clear this isn't a knee-jerk reaction, a flash in the pan ad campaign following what [Peter] Mandelson has said," Bales said. "We have had a significant, long-running campaign and this is the latest stage in that."Late last week, David Lammy, the intellectual property minister, reminded the entertainment industry that the government expected its actions to be counterbalanced by such campaigns.Speaking to the Motion Picture Association of America in Washington, Lammy told the audience: "Many otherwise law-abiding people believe they are causing no harm when they buy or download illegal copyright goods. They think that creators and business have already been well paid for their work. I want us to reach out to those people."The government's proposals are being hammered into shape in the form of a digital economy bill, which is intended to be officially unveiled during the Queen's Speech in mid-November.However, the controversial nature of some proposals, particularly ahead of next year's general election, and the lack of parliamentary time, have led some to question how much of the bill will make it through parliament.
Staff at PC World and Currys are using Facebook to launch a torrent of abuse at customers. Offensive comments have been posted on discussion boards by past and present employees, entitled "Really Stupid Customers!" and "Some customers are really, really stupid".Despite criticising some customers for being "ignorant", many of the group's 3,000 members have posted comments under their real names.The shops' parent company, DSG, is understood to be investigating in the wake of the revelations. Posters who said they were employed by DSG said some customers deserved to be punched and one asked if they should be allowed to "cattle prod" others.DSG said: "We have clear guidelines for staff and will investigate any alleged abuse of customers. Delivering excellent customer service is at the forefront of everything we do, so we are very disappointed a small number of our colleagues have made these comments on a social networking website. We will take the necessary action with any staff found to be acting inappropriately."British Airways took action last November against staff who complained about customers' "stupid American accents" on Facebook. Virgin was also embarrassed when employees referred to some of the airline's passengers as "chavs".
When Meg Whitman, one of the most high-profile women in Silicon Valley, decided to celebrate the 10th birthday of her auction website, eBay, by spending what turned out to be $3.1bn on Skype, a two-year-old communications company which counted its revenues in the low millions of dollars, Wall Street was left stunned. The connection between running an online flea market, which allows people to sell everything from cars to antique furniture, and making free phone calls over the internet eluded analysts, who instead saw the acquisition of Skype as an attempt by a big name of the original dotcom boom vicariously to recapture some of its lost glamour by snapping up one of the most high-profile startups of the so-called web 2.0 movement.Last week, four years and a $1.4bn (&pound;860m) writedown later, those Wall Street doubters were proved correct, as eBay jettisoned as much of Skype as it could manage to a group of financial investors that includes Index Ventures, one of the firms that made a fortune backing the business in the first place.Compared with many of the other hubristic deals done in the web 2.0 boom it was a remarkable escape, as the price tag placed on Skype was only slightly below what eBay originally spent. But it leaves the online auction house back at square one, faced with embarking on another search for growth or accepting that it will be one of the first of the early dotcom startups to take on the financial characteristics of a mature business.And Whitman? It was her resignation as chief executive last March, to join the growing list of California's gubernatorial candidates, that cleared the way for a rethink of the rationale for owning Skype in the first place. When the original acquisition was announced, Whitman, in fact eBay's 31st employee, had promised investors that putting together eBay's auctions and its PayPal online payments service with Skype "will create an extraordinarily powerful environment for business on the net". However, when her replacement, John Donahoe, a former management consultant with two decades' experience at Bain &amp; Co, announced the sale of 65% of the company, he admitted: "Skype is a strong standalone business, but it does not have synergies with our e-commerce and online payments businesses."Analysts noted the strategic U-turn, but the price garnered for 65% of Skype valued the whole business at $2.75bn and was treated as something of a coup. Tentative talks earlier in the year had placed a price of $2bn on the whole operation, while initial plans for a flotation of the company were scuppered when it emerged that Skype does not, in fact, have the rights to use its own technology. Those rights lie with a company set up by Skype's founders, Niklas Zennstr&ouml;m and Janus Friis.But other web 2.0 deals done around the same time have come unstuck in far more spectacular fashion. News Corporation has more than halved the value of the MySpace social network it bought two months before the Skype deal. AOL is rumoured to have touted its social network Bebo for sale recently, while Last.fm's owner CBS has also taken a substantial writedown. This side of the Atlantic, ITV's abortive experiment with web 2.0 came to an end with the embarrassing sale of Friends Reunited for just &pound;25m, after it had spent &pound;175m on it.The idea of buying Skype, explained Aapo Markkanen, telecoms analyst at IHS Global Insight, was to increase the number of people buying and selling on the website by improving communication between bidders and auctioneers. Rather than emailing each other they would be able to talk, using the website itself for their free calls. This direct connection, meanwhile, would help eBay reduce the amount of fraud in its auctions, helping to reduce costs and attract more buyers. But he said: "In practice, the users simply still preferred emails to calls. Communication in voice also compromised some of the anonymity of bidding, which to many users is a significant upside in online auctions."In fact, during the four years in which eBay owned Skype, the company's core auctions business had started to stumble. Then the global recession, which many people believed would lead more and more consumers to turn to the flea market in search of bargains, increased the slowdown. One of the first moves by Donahoe, who spent three years running eBay's core marketplace unit before stepping into Whitman's shoes, was to carry out that most common measure of a traditional business: cutting staff to slash costs. EBay axed 10% of its 16,000-strong worldwide workforce in 2008.But the rot had set in. Although the site was the number-one online shopping destination last Christmas, according to the web metrics firm comScore, a month later the company reported its first-ever quarterly drop in revenues. Its share price, meanwhile, has plunged from $35 in early 2007 to as low as $10.Donahoe has infuriated some of his core sellers - individuals and start-up businesses - by moving eBay towards fixed-price sales from big-name retailers in his drive for stability. It is changing from an online flea market, with all the excitement that suggests, to little more than an online shopping mall.Part of the reason for the switch is that eBay is no longer getting the fanatical following from buyers that it once had. Its fall from grace - and the rise of the web 3.0, or 2.01, companies that have taken its place - can be seen in media stories of the past half-decade. Five years ago, newspapers were full of stories about what was being sold on eBay; then journalists became obsessed with who was saying what about whom on Facebook; and now the online pulse is taken by scouring Twitter. EBay is nowhere to be seen. In business, to corrupt Oscar Wilde's saying, there is only one thing in life worse than being talked about, and that is not being talked about.
Peugeot 308CC&pound;19,765Miles per gallon:47.9CO2 per km:108 gramsGood for:Air kissingBad for:Hair messingMaybe it was my guilty conscience - the looming deadline I'd managed to neatly bury, the indestructible geranium by the front door I'd failed to water for, oh, at least four months, the look of disbelief on my seven-year-old daughter's face when I told her I had a sore elbow and couldn't possibly play another game of table tennis - but every time I sat behind the wheel of Peugeot's glossy new 308CC I had the distinct impression that someone was breathing down my neck. Then I realised it was actually the car itself that was breathing down my neck. Buried in the leathery folds of the two front seats are a set of air vents which, when the roof is retracted, blow a steady stream of warm air at the back of your neck. Peugeot call it an "air wave" which is a slightly less snappy term than an "air scarf", but Mercedes-Benz have already snapped that up. Either way, the idea is that an impossibly glamorous person with a taste for folding-roof sports cars couldn't endure the inconvenience of a lightly chilled neck area.It's a perfect example of over-engineering. The simple joy of hands-in-the-air, wind-in-your-hair motoring that the classic soft-top sports car offers has been shunted sideways by the hard-topped cabriolets that now race for the sun. Raise the button on the central console and an extraordinary whirring of pulleys, electro-hydraulic pumps and cross-boot tubes turns a coup&eacute; into a full-size metal origami model, transforming from roofed to roofless car in a matter of seconds. This one can even do it while driving (but only at 7mph). For many, it's the cake you can eat. But for me it's a compromise which never quite works - you get a cramped saloon or an ungainly cabriolet.A chilled neck is the least of your problems.It's all the fault of Georges Paulin, a Parisian dentist and hero of the French Resistance who designed and patented the first power-operated retractable hardtop. Poor old Paulin was condemned to death by a German military tribunal and executed in 1942, but his brilliance as a designer lives on in the popularity of today's coup&eacute; cabriolets. Peugeot reinvented the concept a decade ago with the production of its 206CC which was followed by CC versions of the 207 and 307. In total, it has sold more than 650,000 CCs since then and is now the world's leader in this body style. The 308CC is the updated version of its 307 and though it offers a softened version of that large-derri&egrave;red car, it still looks a little ungainly to my eye - tilted forward as if it's on the point of falling on its face. Maybe it already has - its giant braced front grille makes it look like a Cheshire cat after a trip to the orthodontist.Looks aside, the 308 does offer a superb ride - there are no detectable vibrations, even at high speeds with the roof down, and it all feels reassuringly high end. There's plenty of clever stuff, too. Airbags are built into the front seats, which is an industry first. The 1.6-litre diesel engine I tested was smooth, responsive and remarkably efficient. And you could always save a little money by opting for ordinary seats and wearing your own scarf.martin.love@observer.co.uk
Wordpress blogs, one of the most prevalent among custom install blogs (and used by organisations including Downing Street and the Daily Telegraph) are vulnerable - and being hit - by a worm that affects any old (ie before 2.8.4) version.Details arehere(and also onWordpress's site).As Matt Mullenweg, who has played a key part in the development and commercialisation of Wordpress, points out, it's not much fun if you get hit:Right now there is a worm making its way around old, unpatched versions of WordPress. This particular worm, like many before it, is clever: it registers a user, uses a security bug (fixed earlier in the year) to allow evaluated code to be executed through the permalink structure, makes itself an admin, then uses JavaScript to hide itself when you look at users page, attempts to clean up after itself, then goes quiet so you never notice while it inserts hidden spam and malware into your old posts.Among those who have been hit is Robert Scoble, whofell victim to a previous hack but has now been hit again:A few weeks ago some hackers broke into my blog here (this was before 2.8.4 was released). At first I thought they just left some porn sites in a couple of blog entries. So we upgraded Wordpress (I was on 2.7x back then). Deleted a fake admin account. Deleted the porn sites. And thought we had solved the problem. We didn't.They broke back in, but this time they did a lot more damage. They deleted about two months of my blog. Yes, I didn't have a backup. I should learn to do backups (we're doing them now). Life has a way of beating you if you don't have backups.Wordpress, being free and open-source and based on MySQL and PHP (and so its customisation requires skills that are in wide supply), has spread widely since its initial release in May 2003.And, as a widely used open source application relying on PHP, it is vulnerable to attack. The latest one uses SQL injection via the "registered user" element, and so on.Itsvulnerabilitieshave been noted: it's got them.The attacks are getting more frequent (as are the updates to close holes). At least upgrading is easier using theWordpress Automatic Upgrade plugin- it's a lifesaver which backs up and updates your Wordpress blog in place.Once the updates have been made and blogs secured or cleaned up (which may be harder in some cases than others) then the questions will begin. Principally: does Wordpress, with its scores of files, offer too big a target for motivated hackers to be the blog platform of choice for large or small organisations?Some people are already comparing it to Windows: such a big target that any attack is bound to hit some big fish, and plenty of little ones. And how many people have enough control or interest in their blog to go to the trouble of cleaning up? Windows botnets tell you what the situation is like on Windows. Spam comments tell you how things are in terms of cleaning up comments. And what about cleaning up the hacked content of your blog?It's a key question, and the answer may determine whether Wordpress becomes either a key building block of the web, or "hey, remember when everyone used Wordpress?"
Gentlemen Broncos, from the director of Napoleon Dynamite, isn't released until the end of the year but the trailer is already an online hit. The official homepage also links to a spectacular spoof site featuring the main character. Played by Flight Of The Conchords star Jemaine Clement, science fiction author Ronald Chevalier offers us a portal into his unique and wondrous mind. Here you will find Chevalier himself reading from his celebrated trilogy (part of a series of 10 trilogies) Cyborg Hippies, discover the art of "relaxicating" or download his Oracle of Wisdom widget.
Arachnophobes don't need to worry - the eight-legged beast that is the hero of Spider: The Secret Of Bryce Manor is unlikely to trigger anyone's fight or flight reflex, instead becoming a neat and highly functional centrepiece for a bit of insect hunting and mystery unravelling. Each level is a side-on view of a beautifully hand-drawn room in the manor, and point at a position on the screen for your spider to walk to it, or swipe to make it jump. Creating a web involves finding a space that sees reasonable insect traffic and anchoring pieces of silk to make a geometric shape, which instantly becomes a sticky death trap and, soon after, the site of delicious spider snacks. Traverse slippery bowls and baths, leap on wasps and enjoy a wonderfully subtly delivered narrative that never resorts to words of voiceover, simply letting you discover certain artefacts and make of them what you will.• Tiger Style, &pound;1.79
From the people who brought you the absurdly characterised yet brilliantly playable Gears Of War series comes a game with absolutely no cigar-chomping space marines eviscerating hordes of insectoid aliens with unlikely-looking guns. It does, however, centre on tough-talking, heavily armed, near-future cops slaughtering body-armoured government stooges, so thematically it's not a sea change. The big difference is that, mechanically, it's a traditional 2D side-scrolling shooting game re-invented for the 3D generation, as you engage targets in a succession of expertly executed miniature set-pieces. Playing much like Nintendo's Metroid series (before it made the lurch into 3D), complete with vast maps and doors that can only be opened with upgraded weapons, Shadow Complex rewards exploration as much as marksmanship and is more interesting for it.• Microsoft, 1200 Microsoft points (approx &pound;10.20)
