The live screen in the Chirp conference lobby. Photo byd.mosheron Flickr.Some rights reservedReadWriteWeb hasa handy cribfrom the Twitter Chirp conference (at which our own Chris Thorpe hasdemonstrated the Guardian's implementation of the @anywhere service(which is like Facebook Connect: it lets people tweet from almost anywhere but without having to hand over their login details; if you want a guide on how to use it,here's Michael Brunton-Spall's, one of the Guardian developers who worked on it).A few of the statistics (and our questions)&bull; Twitter has 105,779,710 registered users (our previous best guess was 45m - though this 105m, soon to be 106m, isn't active users, of course)&bull; 300,000 new users sign up per day (but: how many are spam?)&bull; Approximately 60% of them are coming from outside the US&bull; Twitter receives 180 million unique visitors per month (is that to twitter.com, or totally?)&bull; 75% of Twitter traffic comes from third-party applications&bull; 60% of all tweets come from third-party apps (those tow make an intriguing combination: third-party apps are used more to read than tweet?)&bull; Since the new Blackberry application was launched, it has accounted for 7 to 8% of new signups (encouraging for RIM)&bull; Twitter now has 175 employees, up from 25 one year ago&bull; There are 600 million search queries on Twitter per day (that's a lot of chances forPromoted Tweets)&bull; There are more than 100,000 Twitter applications&bull; Twitter gets 3 billion requests a day through its API&bull; 37% of active Twitter users use their phone to tweet (that's a lot - and shows how Twitter has escaped from the web)More will come, we're sure.
The first time I saw someone playing a computer game was around 1981, at the Puffin Club expo. The hall was filled with stands for my favourite authors – Joan Aiken, Rosemary Sutcliff, Lucy Boston – but the biggest queue was for the bank of computers where children took 10-minute turns playing a "text adventure". I queued up, took my go, typed "N" to go north and "look" to look around me. I can't remember the game, but I can remember the sense of wonder that this was a story you could talk to.Text adventures are still around. They're called interactive fiction now, and there's an annual award for achievement in what has become ahobbyist's field. The best of these manage to be both literature and game:All Roadscasts you as an assassin in Renaissance Venice, whose secret method of operation only becomes clear as the game progresses, whileSlouching Towards Bedlamtells a creepingly horrifying Victorian steampunk tale.Serious novelists are also now creating games that foreground story and text. Kate Pullinger has writtenInanimate Alice, an interactive online story with gamelike elements. Penguin's 2008We Tell Storiescombined great writing with gameplay and had contributions from Toby Litt and Mohsin Hamid. I've thrown my hat into the ring too with the game-inspiredThe Winter House,which is set in the same house as my latest novel – but 100 years earlier.Novels and computer games occupy different ends of the cultural spectrum, but have in common the creation of imaginary worlds that beckon us to enter. As a child, all I wanted was to walk into my favourite stories; interactive fiction is making that possible.
It's the sound effects that do it. That crunching noise of fist on face. That is Final Fight. Then it's the stiff, jolting 2D animation, the utter shameless idiocy of the 'plot', the brilliant boss battles. Ah yes,Final Fight, cousin to Street Fighter, superstar of the scrolling beat-'em-up genre...Now it's out on XBLA and PSN, in a new rendition by Dundee-developer Proper Games. The package also contains Magic Sword, a fantasy-themed hack-n-slasher released in 1990. There's drop-in online co-op, an array of visual modes and lots of juicy little extras for fanatics.So who will it be - Hagger, Guy or Cody?
With GameCity currently knocking the ball out of the park via its excellentGCNightsseries, and Eurogamer lining upanother massive expo, it's already a great year for UK video game events. But a great year just got better. Channel 4 and media agencyPixel Labhave just announced the brilliantly namedWorld of Love, a one day indie gaming conference to be held at the TV channels HQ in London on June 25.The speaker list is basically a who's who of my favourite indie developers.Terry Cavanagh, the brilliant coder behind VVVVVV and Don't Look Back, will be there, as will hotly tipped new studioHello Games, no doubt discussing its motorbike stunt game, Joe Danger. Then there's Simon Oliver, the clever chap responsible for early iPhone smash, Rolando (now runningHand Circus). And wonderfully,Stephen Lavelle, the experimental game design genious behind the likes ofAtopeosisandStarfeld. Wow.Tickets are £65 each and availablehere.There's actually been a spate of interesting game event announcements this week.If you're prepared to travel further afield there's theNordic Gameconference which takes place in Malmö, Sweden and Copenhagen, Denmark, from April 27-30 and is set to feature Guillaume de Fondaumiere, Co-CEO of Quantic Dream, Adrien Cho from Bioware and Jeppe Carlsen form indie studioPlaydead, responsible for hugely promising monochrome XBLA puzzler,Limbo.Slightly further afield there's the3D Gaming Summitat the Hilton in Los Angeles on April 21-22. Dedicated almost entirely to stereoscopic 3D titles, speakers include Mark Rein of Epic Games, Jon Landau, Producer of Avatar and intriguingly Jesse Stern, Writer of Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2. Does that mean Modern Warfare 3 is going 3D? That's, of course, assuming that there will beanyone left at Infinity Wardto make another game...
Previously confined to the heavy number-crunching duties of a PC or, at best, running from a UMD on the PSP, it's a bold move for Sports Interactive to try to port their addictive, time-consuming and, above all, huge game into an app for the iPhone or iTouch. Conceptually they are takinga piece of softwareresponsible for the loss of countless productive hours, sleep, health and mental energy, and allowing it to escape the confines of the home and follow you about everywhere.All of the time.Fans of the franchise will need no explanation of how tempting and potentially disastrous this may prove and their needs are addressed below. But being an app it is potentially reaching a whole new audience as well.For newcomers, your aim is to guide a club to success as the man in the sheepskin coat. From humble beginnings you must deal with the players, tactics, squad selection, transfers, sales and all the key decisions before watching them take shape in that week's game represented in both text and graphic form.And it is better to start at the bottom, as there's far more fun and accomplishment in seeing Kettering in Europe than Chelsea – as with all the best games, it mirrors real life. It's enthralling and endearing stuff, especially when your team scores and the little blobs representing players all hurtle off to the corner flag to form a bundle ...If you've not tried FM before this makes a splendid introduction to the genre. It's stunning that it plays so well and works on a small screen.  Which is also, for a newcomer to the game, its only drawback – such is the level of detail that moving through menus with pudgy man-hands used to the broad brush-stokes of most apps can be awkward. But it's a minor niggle that will not matter to devotees who will, no doubt, be flexing said fingers in anticipation.So how does it measure up for them? The interface is neat, tidy and intuitive – immediately familiar to anyone who has played the series. From the text perspective the balance is about right in terms of information. It's small but not so small you feel you have to navigate through many screens to achieve anything.The match engine is ambitious but not quite as successful. Including the 'cut to pitch' highlights facility was brave but can be repetitive. It freezes occasionally or features the odd unrealistic moment  –throw-ins that go from near the goal to the other side of the pitch. Training and player interactions are included but felt a little token – given the size of the hardware in use and the type of gameplay an app encourages, they could have been left out with no great loss, possibly in favour of more formation options or the ability to, as in the PC game, modify the basic starting formations yourself.However, this was always going to be an ambitious undertaking and nigh on impossible to tick every box. It remains a resounding success. It's quick to pick up and play, and you can knock off a couple of games during a quiet moment – an essential tenet of an app. As a portable summation of a huge game, it achieves far more than might be  expected, including an impressive database of players and leagues. Most importantly, as a member of the FM series it is really enjoyable and, as witnessed in the desire to squeeze in an extra game in every spare moment after only days of playing, dizzyingly compulsive.
Intel announced excellent first quarter financial results last night, with revenues up by 44% to $10.3 billion, while profits jumped 288% to $2.4 billion. It looks as though the PC market has picked up since last-year's recession-hit first quarter. And during theearnings call conference, Intel's chief executive Paul Otellini made an interesting comment. He said:"I still think there will be significant growth in the netbook business year-over-year. I think that there are rather than pricing I think we would look to features and integration as a technical novelty or twist here. The next innovation coming out on Atom is Dual Core which comes out in the second quarter. So that will ramp for the holiday season this year and I think that will be a very attractive product."As someone who has already used and reviewed a netbook with a dual-core Atom -- theAsus Eee PC 1201N-- I'm looking forward to that. My experience is that if you use a dual-core Atom chip and a decent graphics processor, performance is very much closer to the low end of the notebook PC market.Intel already sells dual-core Atom chips for "nettops" such as the Asus Eee Box EB1012, which uses an N330 like the 1201N netbook. However, dual-core Atoms are not common, and not everyone appreciates that they're available. New products and a bit of Intel marketing could change that situation dramatically. Indeed, you could soon be tempted to buy a new netbook even if you already have one.We've had a "PC refresh cycle" for decades now, and this could be the world's first "netbook refresh cycle".Moving from a 1GB single-core Atom-powered netbook running Windows XP to a 2GB dual-core Atom-powered netbook running Windows 7 provides a significant step forward in terms of both hardware and software. As with the 1201N, the question mark is over the price.It looks to me as though people will accept compromises on netbooks as long as they're cheap. I suspect they won't be as keen on netbooks that have fewer compromises if they cost as much as (or even more than) notebooks. That, at least, is what the 1201N shows. I didn't buy one, and neither did you.
Vodafone, O2 and Orange have all signed up to supply the iPad to customers in the UK from next month.Earlier today Apple admitted that high demand for the tablet computer means that its launch outside the UShas been delayed until May. The Californian company will announce prices and open pre-orders on 10 May.Apple is producing two versions of the device – one that only has short-range Wi-Fi technology and one that can access both Wi-Fi and 3G mobile phone networks. But users will not be able to merely insert their existing sim card into the iPad, because it uses micro-sims.Neither O2, Orange nor Vodafone gave details of the actual prices they will charge iPad users for mobile broadband access.In a statement Vodafone merely said it will offer "dedicated iPad price plans for all models from the end of May in Australia, Germany, Italy, Spain and the UK".O2 said it will offer "dedicated iPad price plans for all models from the end of May in the UK".Orange said it will offer "dedicated iPad price plans for all models from the end of May in France, UK, Spain and Switzerland".In the UK, Vodafone, Orange, O2 and T-Mobilehave all been chasing after the iPadand executives from the four networks are understood to have mhad meetings with Appleto discuss the device. T-Mobile said discussions with Apple are continuing and "updates will be provided as and when it is pertinent to do so".In February, Vodafone's boss, Vittorio Colao, said: "Anything that improves the customer experience with mobile data is welcome and as such I would be very interested in having it."The mobile phone companies want to be able to tie iPad pricing plans in with their existing tariffs. So a customer on a long-term iPhone contract, for instance, would get a sim card for their iPad for an additional monthly fee.Apple, however, is understood to favour giving customers the ability to pay only for the mobile access they need, on a pre-pay basis.As a result, O2, Orange and Vodafone are expected to offer both pre-pay and contract deals.In the US, Apple's network partner, AT&amp;T, is offering 250MB of data for $14.99 a month and unlimited data for $29.99, with no requirement for customers to sign long-term contracts.
I'm hoping@jackschofielddidn't tweet anything regrettable because Google is now bringing old and long-forgotten tweets to light. TheOfficial Google Blogsays:"Starting today, you can zoom to any point in time and 'replay' what people were saying publicly about a topic on Twitter. To try it out, click 'Show options' on the search results page, then select 'Updates'. The first page will show you the familiar latest and greatest short-form updates from a comprehensive set of sources, but now there's a new chart at the top. In that chart, you can select the year, month or day, or click any point to view the tweets from that specific time period."Not being on Twitter does not mean you have nothing to worry about. Google is also searching MySpace, Facebook, FriendFeed and Buzz.
Apple has delayed the international launch of its iPad computer for a month, blaming "surprisingly strong US demand" that has outstripped its ability to produce them.More than 500,000, it says, have been delivered to retailers and customers in its first week on sale.The company had planned to launch the touch-screen device internationally at the end of April, after beginning sales in the US on 3 April. But the strong demand – which saw 300,000 delivered to shops and buyers in the first weekend – now means that it cannot hit that timetable.The company said in a statement: "We will announce international pricing and begin taking online pre-orders on Monday, May 10. We know that many international customers waiting to buy an iPad will be disappointed by this news, but we hope they will be pleased to learn the reason –the iPad is a runaway success in the US thus far."Apple had previously said the iPad would  be available in Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Spain, Switzerland and the UK in late April.The news will be a disappointment to thousands of people outside the US who wanted to get their hands on the machines, which have been lauded by reviewers. Some have managed to acquire the device from US sources – including the Guardian's editor-in-chief, Alan Rusbridger,who reviewed it last week.The iPad is a touch-screen computer with a 9.7-inch screen which uses the same operating system as Apple's iPhone and iPod Touch. It comes in two basic models, one with Wi-Fi wireless internet connectivity, and another with both Wi-Fi and 3G mobile connectivity. Only the Wi-Fi model is on sale at present, with the 3G version due to go on sale in the US at the end of the month.Although Apple announced the iPad in January, and gave US pricing at the time – starting from $499 for the cheapest model – it has repeatedly declined to give any guidance about international prices. That may be to give it room for manoeuvre and let it raise the price of non-US versions to control demand. The US is by far the largest market for Apple products, generating about half its revenues.Some had expected Apple to set out its international pricing for the iPad yesterday, when it updated its MacBook Pro line of laptops worldwide. The absence of pricing and of any facility to pre-order had looked surprising."Although we have delivered more than 500,000 iPads during its first week, demand is far higher than we predicted and will likely continue to exceed our supply over the next several weeks as more people see and touch an iPad," the company said in a statement. "We have also taken a large number of pre-orders for iPad 3G models for delivery by the end of April."Analysts have estimated that Apple could sell between 2.5m and 6m iPads this year, which would make it by far the largest seller of "tablet" computers in the world: it's estimated that about 1.25m non-Apple tablets will be sold in 2010.Apple is due to announce its quarterly financial results on 20 April, though iPad sales will not be part of those, as the quarter being reported ended on 31 March.
How easy is it to make an "app" for the iPhone? And is it worth the effort in a crowded market in which there have been well over 3bn downloads?I know the answer to the first part of the question and will soon know the answer to the second. For years, until my recent retirement from the Guardian,I have been writing about creative uses of new technologyand in most cases I have tried to test things out for myself before writing – whether a new mobile phone or a website such aslulu.comthat enables you to self-publish your own books.For my final effort I decided to have a go at publishing my own iPhone app. But where to start and how expensive would it be, given all the stories I had been hearing about iPhone developers charging up to £600 (more than $900) or more a day for their skills?The result is an app calledCity Poems– published today – that uses satellite navigation to guide culture vultures and tourists alike through the streets of central London poem by poem. After weeks of researching poems about the city, I realised that you can learn more about the past life of a city from poems than from most guide books and histories. Wherever you are standing in London (or New York for that matter) with an iPhone (or iPod Touch or iPad) in your hand it will tell you how many metres you are away from places and events that poems have been written about.They include the execution of the criminalJonathan Wild(one of the inspirations for John Gay's The Beggar's Opera), public burnings in Smithfield ("His guts filled a barrel") or the curious stories behind the statues in Trafalgar Square, which I had passed by in ignorance for many decades. There are, of course, plenty of other platforms for developing apps – Google's Android, BlackBerry, Symbian and Nokia – but it is Apple that is making the running at the moment – even though it accounts for less than 1% of the world's phones.I have been experimenting with new technology and poems for some years, including a program that has been running day and night for more than a decade,attempting to replicate two lines of a poemand theGuardian's text message poetry competitionwhich still gets written about, nine years on. More recently, I have tried linking poems to streets in Google Maps but it all looked rather static and was in danger of being drowned by all the other information on the map. The arrival of GPS, which allows you to place something on a phone map with an exact longitude and latitude position offered new opportunities, but I hadn't a clue how to go about it.One day, in theInstitute of Contemporary Arts(ICA) in London I was chatting with the publisher of the very usefulToiluxeapp which uses satellite location on an iPhone map to direct you to the nearest toilet in central London (whether public or in a hotel). I asked him whether it would be easy to put poems in instead of toilets. He said it could be done and after talking to his developer he came up with a proposal that we would both share the extra development cost involved on a 50/50 basis. After a while he had serious doubts – which I shared – about whether a poems app would ever be able to recoup the costs involved. Very amicably, we agreed not to proceed.Meanwhile, at one of the Friday-night meetings in Whitechapel of the livelyMiniBarfor budding entrepreneurs, Koder Keef tapped me on the shoulder and said he had overheard me saying I was working on a poems app and to get in touch if I needed any help. I did, and he seemed to be just what I was looking for. He had already produced an impressive location-based app off his own bat calledInstant Tweetup(which tracks nearby tweets from Twitter users) and which could be a template for mine. After agreeing on practically everything, it came down to money: reaching a deal that didn't make it prohibitively expensive. We were at the ICA and I said I would go upstairs to get some coffee and asked him to put on paper a proposition while I was away, which I would accept if it was reasonable. What he proposed was that I would pay him a reduced fee for adapting his existing app (hundreds rather than thousands of pounds) and he would get a 30% stake in the equity of the project. That seemed fair to me in the circumstances, so we agreed.I stepped up my efforts to find more poems, ranging from books borrowed fromthe London Libraryto a variety of poetry databases on the web and laboriously entered longitude and latitude co-ordinates gleaned from Google Maps on a simple template that Keef (real name Keith Moon) had set up on Google Docs. Each time I enter the data for a poem it is automatically saved on a spreadsheet and is immediately stored on the web – which means I will be able to add new poems without having to get approval from the Apple store. If this is successful, we could do other things with our geo-tagged template –ideas welcome. At one point I realised that nearly all of the poems were in the wrong places (they started appearing off the coast of Africa) and so I had to go back to scratch. Meanwhile, my new business partner was improving the technical side of the app, adding refinements such as icons in the shape of books that open when you touch them on the screen (suggested by his wife).The one outstanding item was how much to charge. Readers may knowI have strong views on thisbecause if Britain is to have any chance of generating jobs from the opportunities offered by the explosion of apps, we are going to have to get used to paying for products. Gartner predicts that there will be 21.6bn downloads by 2013, of which nearly 90% will be free. This is fine for us as consumers, but it is crazy if we want to generate jobs for the wealth of talent we have in the UK, including the legendary backroom coders. The admirableustwocompany in Shoreditch, east London, with a number of successes on its books, including MouthOff and PositionApp, states: "The bottom line is that it's impossible to make money at the 59p price point for 99% of studios".Developers actually end up with around 60% of income after Apple and VAT (levied at higher Irish rates where the servers are based) have taken their cut. In the end, we decided to charge £1.79 for the app. This will doubtless trigger charges of daylight robbery from those who think everything in the digital age should be free. But City Poems is a lot cheaper than a city coffee, which is gone in a few minutes and, if nothing else, the app have a long shelf life as most of the poems have been around for centuries, some of them albeit previously unearthed.The truly amazing fact is that we have already entered an era in which it is possible for anyone to dream up a service for their mobile phone at low cost, which can be sold to a potential market of billions of people as practically everyone has, or will have a mobile phone. Ours is a tiny example of this. I have no idea how many copies, if any, of our app will be sold but it has convinced me that there are awesome possibilities out there for people prepared to take a risk. For me it ends an interesting period. This month I finally left the Guardian after nearly 47 years. At the end of last week I had my 70th birthday and today my first iPhone app came out. Life is full of surprises.twitter.com/vickeegan
A WePad (not an iPad). Photo byder_rollion Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamCareful What You Wish For: Greater IP Enforcement In China Being Used Against Foreign Companies... &gt;&gt; TechdirtUnintended consequences: it's the law. "Various studies have shown that greater copyright, patent and trademark protections tend to follow a period of great innovation, when the companies that did that innovation look to protect their position from upstarts elsewhere. In other words, it acts in the exact opposite manner as it's supposed to. It's not an incentive to innovate, but a tool used to stop competition and innovation from others. The situation in China is playing out exactly according to that formula."WePad im Detail - Unfertig, undurchsichtig und doch vielversprechend - netbooknews.deThe German netbooks site went to the WePad press conference to see its new Android-powered slate. The text is in German but the table and YouTube videos are informative.Digital Economy Act aftermath and designing for disabilities &gt;&gt; Tech Weekly podcastWorth it for the sparky discussion between Jim Killock of the Open Rights Group and Feargal Sharkey of UK Music.It's Official: Cats Love iPads (video) - MashableiPads, cats, YouTube - an unbeatable combo?Tech Stocks Earnings Coming: Frothy Days Are Here Again? &gt;&gt; AllThingsDEverything's expected to come up roses. Even for Yahoo.First 1TB SSD announced &gt;&gt; Pocket-lintOnly $4,000 to you. But it is drool-resistant.Court probe into internet poker site &gt;&gt; FT.comFull Tilt Poker is among the sites being probed, and some of the best known professionals are being investigated under online gambling and money-laundering laws in Manhattan. (May need registration.)Life at Google &gt;&gt; Tim Bray's OngoingThe former Sun guy is now a Googler. "Google routinely tries to boil five oceans before lunch, and here in my mobile-device corner we're locked in one of the most ferocious competitive head-to-head technology races I can remember in my decades in the biz. A normal business would be bulking up the headcount like crazy, and standards would slip. I'm in awe, and as with many other things I see here, wonder if it can be sustained."Apple's iPad Brings Easy Reading to the Blind &gt;&gt; Forbes.com's BookedA group which is too often overlooked.HTC Studying Whether to Have Own Smartphone Software - Bloomberg.comTo be precise, whether to have its own phone operating system by buying Palm. Note: HTC used to be Windows Mobile's biggest customer. Then it was an Android fan - but Google released the Nexus.apache.org incident report for 04/09/2010 &gt;&gt; Simon WillisonXSS - aka cross-site scripting attacks - are still some of the meanest, most subtle ones out there. What's not answered in the blogposts about it: why they targeted the Apache team.Ex-Infinity Ward heads, EA announce deal - News at GameSpotSilverlight 4 Launch Home - Microsoft SilverlightScott Guthrie, Corporate Vice President of Microsoft's .NET Developer Platform, "introduces Silverlight 4 and shows how Silverlight helps companies design, develop and deliver engaging, interactive applications for the Web, desktop and mobile devices". And you'll see it on the iPhone on the same day hell freezes over.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
The trend for reviving retro gaming brands has accelerated over the last couple of years. This is mainly due to digital distribution lowering the risk of resurrecting once much loved gaming franchises – think Sensible Soccer etc. Today's retro revival news is more ambitious though. Bioshock creators 2k Marin are "reimagining" strategy titleX-COMas a first person shooter. Fans of the cerebral original title may be surprised by the change to an FPS but 2K president Christoph Hartmann – unsurprisingly - has no such concerns:With BioShock 2, the team at 2K Marin proved themselves as masters of first-person, suspenseful storytelling, and with XCOM they will re-imagine and expand the rich lore of this revered franchise. Players will explore the world of XCOM from an immersive new perspective and experience first-hand the fear and tension of this gripping narrative ride.There is no release date yet but XCOM will only be appearing on 360 and PC. PS3 owners miss out on this one but will they care? The original was an excellent base-building strategy title – I remember playing the Amiga version – but does the brand hold any relevance to, say a 20 year old Xbox 360 owner?What about you then? Play the original games and looking forward to this? Disappointed by the move to first person shooter? Or simply wondering what the fuss is all about?
After almost two years of debate, the controversial digital economy bill has passed into law. Fergal Sharkey, chief executive officer of UK Music, and Jim Killock, the executive director of the Open Rights Group debate the implications of the act in this week's programme.The Digital Economy Act 2010 outlines the government's solution to online piracy, and seeks to provide a boost to the valuable British creative sector and is a vast and sprawling act that has ignited an extraordinary debate that strikes at the heart of digital rights.The act will force internet service providers to protect the rights of content providers - people like musicians, film-makers and photographers. It also offers unprecedented control over the digital spectrum; that includes the right to blacklist websites that illegally distribute copyrighted material. Aleks Krotoski and Charles Arthur chair the debate.Charles also speaks to people involved in inclusive design - design which takes into account the needs of people who may be older, less able, or who simply may not understand the language of modern technology.  Find out how even a simple on/off button can cause confusion, and why technology companies aren't catering for the estimated 8 million people in the UK who have a disability.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Formula 1 has been at the awesome edge of innovation for decades, yet most of the time you would have been pushed to find the fruits of its research adopted elsewhere. Not any more. Technology developed by F1 engineers at McLaren – in order, among other things, to speed up its pit stops – is being used by air traffic control at Heathrow to predict aircraft movements two hours before they happen.McLaren's pit stop technology has also been used at Great Ormond Street hospital in London to help streamline the handover between surgery and intensive care. These are but two examples of "open collaboration" between different industries which helped McLaren to win one of the five prizes – for open innovation – awarded in this year's Open Innovation competitionorganised by Nestaand supported by the Guardian.Open innovation is coming of age as companies and public sector bodies realise that if they want to stay competitive in future against the increasing global challenges, it makes absolute sense to collaborate with outsiders. Innovation is happening at a breathless pace in nearly every industry as the digital revolution demolishes the old business models.But how do you know whether something being developed in an unrelated industry couldn't transform your own in the waythe principles of Last.fm have been applied to scientific researchor how someone from the concrete industrysolved the problem of getting rid of the oil from the Exxon Valdez oil disaster20 years on?Being one of the judges of the competition opened my eyes – not only to the huge potential of open collaboration as reflected in the winners, but also to some of the weaknesses of the model. First, the good news. We were required to choose winners from a shortlist of 100 divided into five sections. Winner of the crowdsourcing section wasCloudmade, the company whose co-founder was responsible for starting OpenStreetMap, which is using volunteers to map the entire planet street by street with great success. The maps are free, but CloudMade has now built a company on top to employ people to exploit it commercially, a great example of how open innovation can be combined with a business model to create jobs for the future.The admirablewikihow.com, which uses crowdsourcing to generate "How to" videos that attract 25 million visitors a month, won the Co-creation award, whileOpen Office, the open source alternative to Microsoft's Office, won the Open Source Software section in recognition of the progress that has been made over the years to make it more user-friendly. The winner of the Open Business award wasZopa, which provides a peer-to-peer lending and borrowing service that has grown strongly during the banking crisis although it is still a small organisation. If, and it is a big if, it can continue to provide a safe alternative to banks even though it doesn't have a government guarantee (it relies on spreading the risk of loans among dozens of different recipients), then customers will be satisfied and taxpayers could avoid future bailouts.The weakness of the model? It was crystallised during an animated discussion about whether Apple should be considered for an award. Yes, of course, because its amazing store has generated more than 150,000 new apps in barely two years, creating a hotbed of innovation out of nothing. No, never, because of its control-freakishness in shutting out Flash animations (endemic on YouTube), exploiting a monopoly payments system and very strict take-it-or leave it rules about the process of making apps.The trouble is that this Kremlinesque approach has resulted in such beautiful game-changing products as the iPhone and iPad that are a delight to useas reported in the Observer. Contrast that with Google's adoption of open source software for its Android phones. This is much better in theory as it allows developers to do their own thing but in practice, at least so far, this results in all sorts of different software versions that don't always work too well on the varying sizes and hardware of different Android phones. As Steven Johnson has pointed out,Steve Jobs has turned a walled garden into a rainforest.There is no doubt that open source solutions are on a roll and there are lots of areas where they will sweep all before them. The problem yet to be solved is how to harness the freedom and creativity that open collaboration offers with the need to have consumer friendly products that non-geeks will want to buy with their own money.The free Linux operating system, devised by volunteers all over the world, is one of the wonders of the web but it still hasn't had much impact on Microsoft's near 95% domination of the market. Does the open innovation movement need a benevolent dictator like Steve Jobs or is that not possible because of its, laudable, democratic base?• This article was amended on 16 April 2010. The original said that CloudMade was responsible for openstreetmap.org. This has been corrected.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
MacBook Pro and Magic Mouse. Photo byJohan Brookon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamDetails, Details, Details. Why Apple's MacBook Pro refresh matters more than you think &gt;&gt; GartenBlog"Better battery life. An automatic way to switch between discrete and integrated graphics and momentum scrolling. Three features. None of them are a reason to buy a new computer. In fact, if Apple had ignored them didn't include any of them in this release, I suspect they'd have not sold one less MacBook as a result."The Music Industry &amp; Online Piracy by the Numbers (Infographic) &gt;&gt; OddeeThe big four, the decline of album sales, the rise of digital, and so on...A Google Tablet Could Be Good News for Adobe &gt;&gt; New York TimesApple Updates MacBook Pro Line &gt;&gt; Apple"Faster Processors, Next-Generation Graphics &amp; Up to 10 Hours of Battery Life" says Apple's press releaseFile Sharing with an iPad: Ugh! &gt;&gt; Mac ObserverBasically, it ruins your Apple presentations and it's mostly impossible. Can we introduce you to Google Docs?Mixr Shows the Delicious Promise of Multitouch Music iPad Apps &gt;&gt; Gizmodo|The iPad is not just for books and TV: it can also be a mixing desk.Open data for postcodes &gt;&gt; UK PostcodesWorks on the iPhone too: find out details about a postcode, or one near you. Note the word on the action button. Built with that free OS/Royal Mail data.Measures to Tackle Online Copyright Infringement: Terms of Reference &gt;&gt; OfcomThe Digital Economy Act starts its engines.Microsoft Kin: Hands-on video of 'social phone' &gt;&gt; TechFlashA video demo of the Kin phone showing drag-and-drop sharing and the full Zune player includedGoogle to open-source VP8 for HTML5 Video &gt;&gt; newteevee.comWhich would mean you have H.264 (paid-for, widely supported), Ogg Theora (free, not widely supported) and VP8 (free, used by Google). And, of course, Flash.The next generation of Google Docs &gt;&gt; Google blogGoogle says it's adding more desktop features to what currently look like copies of very old versions of Microsoft World and Excel, and that "imported documents retain their original structure more accurately". (Still not accurately, we suspect, just "more accurately".)The Gradual Disappearance Of Flash Websites &gt;&gt; Smashing MagazineThe Smashing site - popular with web developers, looks at the eventual (probable) transition and provides links to some example HTML5 and experimental sitesNews Sites Rethink Anonymous Online Comments &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"It's an accepted part of the Internet, but there's no question that people hide behind anonymity to make vile or controversial comments," says Arianna Huffington, a founder of The Huffington Post.  "I feel that this is almost like an education process. As the rules of the road are changing and the Internet is growing up, the trend is away from anonymity."Why Mozilla Needs To Go Into Survival Mode &gt;&gt; Tom's HardwareIt probably overstates the case, but Firefox undoubtedly faces problems due to the rapid growth of Google Chrome and the dramatic improvements in speed and standards compliance coming from Microsoft...This Digital Economy bill debate is an outrage! Or is it? &gt;&gt; Phil Gyford"Reading the #debill hashtag was like being inside the collective self-righteous mind of fox-hunting advocates when they felt Parliament was ignoring them. Not pleasant."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Delay is seldom a good sign. The games industry's position as the preeminent "popular" art form, having usurped both music and movies, means that as well as the substantial-going-on-vulgar profits available, there are also the same indicators as to a project's state of health as apply to music (umpteenth remix, for example) or movies (second director fired, seven different names on the script). Think of the Stone Roses'Second Coming. Think of 1998'sThe Avengers. Delayed and delayed, and then delivered – to indifference at best and heartfelt raspberries at worst.Which brings us toSplinter Cell: Conviction. It's noAvengers, obviously, but there has been enough trouble and strife since this fifth (or sixth, if you count 2006's PSP-onlySC: Essentials) instalment in the by-the-numbers stealth-and-action series was announced in 2007 to put industry watchers on high alert. In 2007,SC: Cwas to be a decisive break from its predecessors, with lead character, Sam Fisher, trading an awful lot of lurking alone in the dark for interaction in populous localations, sometimes in broad daylight. It then all went terribly quiet for two years.Last June saw a relaunch of the rebranding, with Fisher returned to the darkness where, let's be honest, he prefers it. Ubisoft was none the less determined to bring something new to theSplinter Cellfranchise, which is why what was once an honest stealth/action sneak-up-and-strangle-'em affair is now more like the story of a poorly dressed ninja with the ability to locate, target and dispatch an adversary as casually as he might pick his nose.It's these game-play changes that rankle most. What is this "mark and execute" nonsense? Now that Fisher's omnipotent to the point where he can case the room, identify targets and slaughter them before they've so much as heard his loafers creaking, where exactly is the stealth, the tension, the challenge? What's the point now? And don't even get me started on "last known position". Suffice to say, Fisher's become a mind-reader.There's been a film ofSplinter Cellin the pipeline since 2004, when Paramount bought the rights. Names have periodically been named as far as writers, directors and even actors go. No release date exists. I'm just saying.
I have a four year old Dell desktop running Windows XP Home SP3, which has slowly filled up with useless programs over time. I would like to reinstall the operating system, but unfortunately, I have lost the original disc. I have the disc from a Vista laptop (a Samsung Q320), and would like to know if I could install that.Joe MaltDell and many other PC suppliers usually provide a copy of Windows on a hidden part of the hard drive so that users can restore the system to its factory condition. The process is described on Dell's Support page (Article 181316) under the headlinePC Restore for Windows XP. You can run the restoration routine, after backing up all your data, by pressing Ctrl-F11 while the PC is starting up.If PC Restore is not available, you can try to get another copy of your lost Windows disc. To do this, contact Dell Support by following the Contact Dell screens on the web site. Thesupport optionsinclude online messaging, email, and telephone support. You will need your PC's Service Tag number.Dell may well provide you with a replacement Windows disc for around £20, but it depends on the Dell representative involved. One might send you a disc for nothing, while another might say you need to buy a whole new copy of the operating system.Finally, large PC manufacturers invariably buy Windows under a cheap deal that means the operating system can only be used on the PC with which it is sold. You are therefore disallowed from using your Vista disc, though it probably wouldn't work. Thanks to System Locked Preinstallation (SLP) --see Wikipedia-- each installation disc is designed to work only on particular models from a specific manufacturer.In other words, if you know the product key for your Dell desktop PC, you could probably use the disc supplied with another Dell desktop PC, if it's the same model, but not one from a different range or a different manufacturer. Unfortunately, there's also a risk that you'll end up with a PC that doesn't work, or be forced to pay for another copy of the operating system. It would be safer to give your PC a manual spring-clean instead.
Reactions to Twitter's plans to introduce adverts broke into two broad categories: relief that the site had announced a business model which might allow it to continue as a free service; and some doubts that they would be effective or popular.Some people suggested that the adverts – which will appear at first in searches and on the website, and later in the "feed" direct from the site to third-party applications – will either drive the creation of new ad-blocking technology, or create an incentive to create paid-for ad-free accounts, rather as the music streaming service Spotify does.What do you think of Twitter's plan to have "Promoted Tweets"?"Ads on site fine, in API feeds, no thanks. I don't block browser ads, but I'd write a Twitter ad blocking client if it happens" –Lesley Harrison"Promoted tweets will protect Twitter from being sold off, covered in ads and bled dry like MySpace." –Chris Beach"Don't mind idea of targeted promoted tweets. Would prob check some out. Inevitable Twitter must make money" –Mark Jones"Like FB [Facebook], it shouldn't bother mainstream users (the majority audience?) but early adopters / techies may flee obtrusive ads." –Philip Turpin"OK but if Biz [Stone, CEO of Twitter] starts displaying promoted tweets in my Tweetstream, I'd say 'Oi! @biz! No! Shove your ads up your cyberspace'" –TV Pixie"Searches on Twitter tend to return junk. Now it'll be paid junk. Not much difference to me!" –Darcy Kiernan"Sensible – clearly they need revenue &amp; they've gone for least contentious first. Hope paid accs to avoid ads will follow…" –Katy Bairstow"Explains why they need official Twitter clients. The unofficial ones will just start offering adblocking." –Tanya Peasgood"Twitter has to earn, but I doubt an ad-tweet would make me click through. Let's see how creative the advertisers can be :)" –Peter Sigrist"I think only time will tell if ppl click but I think it defeats the purpose. If I want the content, I'll just follow the brand" –David Teicher"I believe it was inevitable. Twitter like most other free services have to make money as well. I like it free so ads are ok" –Trevor A"Would rather see ads than pay, but they need to go slow + make it clear what's ads and what's not" –Sophie Dennis"The ad strategy is the first step into making any free service a payed one IMO. Then go for a subscription service ala Spotify" –Brad"Hate the idea of 'promoted tweets' defeats the purpose doesn't it?" –Finbar Film"Don't see it as a problem. Ads already on ubertwitter. I'd rather scan a sponsored tweet than pay for the service." –Carina Volkes"As long as they are properly tagged 'promoted' I'll just filter them out. If not, it will spell the end of twitter I feel." –Jonathan Ellis
Just in case you somehow missed this yesterday, Microsoft has confirmed a release date for the third and apparently final game in the 12 million-sellingGears of Warseries. Due out in Europe on April 8 2011, the game once again follows the bloody adventures of super soldier Marcus Fenix as he battles to save the human race from the evil Locust Horde aliens. "This is definitely the biggest and most dramatic chapter yet in the 'Gears of War' saga, and we can't wait to deliver it," understates design director Cliff Bleszinski in the press release.From April 20, Fans will be able to visit the Xbox Live Avatar Marketplace and try on the new COG armour from the game. I expect massive metal shoulder pads and decorative grenades will be in again this season.Take a peek at the trailer and let us know what you think.
Here's a bargain of an indie game that, while perhaps lacking in complexity and visual sophistication, more than makes it up for it with imagination, atmosphere and simple playability.Playing as the blind girl of the title, who appears on the screen as a pair of footprints, you must navigate through a series of pitch-black mazes collecting musical notes, and transporting via strategically placed ruby slippers. As its developer, GLpeas, says, BlindGiRl "uses the mechanics of wave propagation to provide unique, discovery and exploration-themed gameplay".These waves, showing up in red and green, are propagated by the sound of the girl's footsteps and her singing. As they echo around the walls they illuminate the mazes, occasionally affecting the environment (some walls can be broken by focusing the waves), and at times attracting some mysterious beasties that lurk about the place waiting to do BlindGiRl harm.The graphics, while basic, work with the soundtrack to evoke an eerie, disquieting atmosphere, which is contributed to by the economical storytelling – we're never told why the girl has to find her way through the mazes, but there are subtle allusions to a story of sadness and confusion.BlindGiRl is not without its faults. It's pretty short, and can be completed in less than a couple of hours (though given the price that's a bit of a churlish complaint), difficulty levels are all over the place, and while it's satisfying to play through, the end is a bit anti-climactic.Flawed though it is, it's nevertheless a must-buy for any Xbox 360 owner who's interested in seeing what a talented developer can do with limited resources and some brilliant, unconventional ideas about gameplay. Hopefully BlindGiRl 2 won't be too far in the offing.
The Dead or Alive series has, over the past 13 years, delighted 14- and 15-year-old boys with its heady mix of derivative fighting action and bouncing, oversized, pixellated breasts.In Dead or Alive Paradise, its, developer Tecmo Koei, has decided to concentrate solely on the latter, somewhat troubling aspect of the franchise's appeal, in what is quite possibly the strangest game I've ever had the privilege of playing. Load the game up and you're greeted with an intro sequence that would get you some pretty strange (and worried) looks if you were to play it on the tube – anime-stylised girls cavorting on a desert island, with the camera zooming in on chest and crotch areas at every opportunity. They're all characters you'd recognise from the DoA series if you were given the opportunity to look at their faces.Once you've chosen from the selection of scantily clad women – information such as their measurements and favourite colour is available, so you can make an informed decision – you're whisked away via a bizarre cutscene to New Zack Island on holiday. And that's where the real fun begins.The gameplay – if a title like this warrants such terminology – is split over a very small array of minigames, each designed to showcase your chosen woman's "assets" in different locales. There's a half-hearted beach volleyball sim, which isn't really much fun at all. A chance to visit a casino and play card games (don't worry, there are still breasts to look at here even though it's indoors). A game where you have to run across floating pads in a swimming pool. And that's about it, four or five stages that would be dull even if it were real-life half-naked women you were watching, let alone the poorly rendered ones trapped in your PSP screen.Such fun and frolics are but a sideshow to Paradise's main feature – and this is where things get really strange. If it weren't disconcerting enough picking your character based on her bra size, it turns out that all the points you accrue are to be used on buying smaller and smaller bikinis for the "relax" stage – an opportunity to take photographs of your girl reposing, stretching or lotioning herself up. These photographs are then stored in a Precious Memories album so you can remember the fun times you had with your synthetic concubine. And you can email the photos to your friends. If anyone receives one of these in their inbox, I'd be very, very worried about the sender.What makes it even worse is the unmitigated tedium of navigating between all the different activities. RPG-lite elements such as having to sleep and cultivating relationships are included I suppose to add depth, but are more frustrating than anything, particularly if you just want to switch the game on for a quick round of lecherous blackjack.DoA Paradise is yet another example of a game that may well make sense in a foreign market but is utterly baffling and bewildering when brought to these shores. As if you need me to say it, if you're keen on seeing some flesh on your PSP screen, there are better ways to go about it. And while a title focused solely on breasts may titillate a small selection of adolescent gamers and weirdos, even then the gaming elements on offer are so tiresome I can't see many persevering with it for more than half an hour. A relatively harmless cultural curiosity, perhaps, but one that made me feel pretty uncomfortable.
Opera's browser, Opera Mini, is now available on the Apple iPhone. Having submitted the app to Apple for its App Store on 23 March, Opera also started a clock - which it has now stopped, showing that ittook 20 days and changefor Apple to put the browser up. (Two people won iPhones forguessing the right dates.)The approval is very interesting, because Opera Mini is a browser, and Apple already includes a browser on the iPhone (it's embedded, and called MobileSafari) - and in the past Apple has refused app submissions which do the same things as programs that are already included on the iPhone (the precise phrase used being that whichever offending app "duplicates existing functionality".Those apps which were turned down tended to be things which did stuff that iTunes could, or might, do - such as download MP3s,in one classic casewhere iTunes on the iPhone didn'tyetdo it at the time, but soon did.Marco Arment, developer of Tumblr and Instapaper,commented earlier this year:"It's an acceptable trade-off for a smartphone, but is it healthy for anyone if all possibilities vanish for alternative native web browsers, email clients, media players, media storefronts, calendars, and contact managers?"And Apple's apps span a wider range than just the iPhone's "big four" bottom-row apps that have been forbidden to duplicate so far. How far will Apple's "duplicates existing functionality" policy go as their App-Store-locked platforms are used for more general computing tasks?"It seems like Apple is letting go on that one. John Gruber, who is well-connected (and thoughtful) on matters relating to such things, said back when Opera Mini was submitted that"My money, by the way, says Apple will accept the app. I know there's much speculation that Apple won't allow an alternative browser that doesn't use the system version of WebKit, but Opera Mini isn't doing JavaScript client-side, so it doesn't break the "no interpreters" rule."And it seems that it's that "no interpreters" rule which Apple is really trying to enforce. Although, asLouis Gerbarg has pointed outelsewhere, that very rule - which comes into pride of place with Apple's now-almost-famous Clause 3.3.1 that puts the kibosh on Adobe's CS5 "write in Flash, run on the iPhone" offering - becomes a problem for many games, which rely on interpreters to figure out what the game should do next."The more interesting thing from my standpoint is that this makes it a license violation to include a language interpreter inside a game. If you aren't a game developer you might not be familiar with how large games are structured, but most games consist of a game engine, which is high performance code for doing things like rendering graphics, and an interpreter which runs the game logic (determining how sprites move, determining when to pop up in game text boxes, etc). This is how practically every commercial RPG works, as well as many (most?) other types of games. This affects major app store publishers, like EA, Gameloft, Tapulous, and ngmoco:). Looking at the top ten lists on the app store right now I see several titles that I know have embedded Lua interpreters."And Apple, of course, is really trying to push gaming hard - why elselaunch its XBox-alike "gaming centre" network? So that Clause 3.3.1 will have to be enforced hard... but not too hard. How hard exactly?Questions, questions. Still, Opera is there if you want it. And here's a film showing how fast it can be. How's it going for you?
Despite starring one of the modern video game world's most memorable characters – the fearsome, gadget-wielding stealth-killing machine Sam Fisher – Splinter Cell has recently resembled a franchise in need of euthanasia. Cannily, though, Ubisoft has pinched one of Hollywood's 21st-century obsessions, and treated that franchise to a reboot. Splinter Cell: Conviction is the result, and it marks a massive return to form.Fisher's fifth outing sees him pursuing his own agenda, free from the shackles of his previous employer, Third Echelon, and obsessed with finding out the truth about his daughter's death in an apparent hit-and-run. The first level, in which Fisher hunts the man responsible in Malta, introduces you to a number of new game mechanics. The most impressive of these is Mark and Execute – which, once you have charged it up by taking an enemy down with a hand-to-hand kill, lets you mark up to four enemies (the number is determined by your gun, and how extensively you have upgraded it), then take them all out at the touch of a button. Fisher also benefits from Last Known Position, a ghost image of him that appears when he is detected, which draws enemy fire. Instructional text and back-story-filling videos sometimes appear projected onto surfaces in the game, which looks a bit messy at first, but you soon get used to it.Conviction also has a gloriously well-sorted cover system, which lets Sam cycle between hiding places and, of course, the usual plethora of pipes and so on for him to climb, plus chandeliers and the like to shoot so that they come crashing down on enemies. The idea of the new mechanisms is to make the game more fluid and dynamic, eliminating the need to spend ages cowering in dark corners waiting for guards to walk past, and it certainly achieves that aim. Whereas previous Splinter Cells were extremely hard to negotiate and required enormous reserves of patience, Conviction is much more forgiving – the satisfaction you derive from it comes from executing stylish takedowns, rather than merely making it to a checkpoint without dying too many times. The franchise's more hardcore following may find that a disappointment (although you can crank up the difficulty level), but it does open up Splinter Cell to a less obviously masochistic audience.Conviction looks great – colour bleeds out to black and white when Sam is hidden – and the best gadgets are present and correct, along with a great choice of weaponry. The action quickly shifts to the US (the denouement taking place in an immaculately constructed virtual White House), and the story is studded with the usual twists and conspiracies. There are a few quibbles: the single-player campaign, following the current trend, isn't particularly long and includes a war-flashback level every bit as pointless as Modern Warfare 2's Moscow Airport level (although not as controversial).But, like Modern Warfare 2, you get bonuses over and above the single-player campaign, with an entire prequel that must be played co-operatively by two people, and Deniable Ops, which can be played by one or two people, and let you choose to clear levels of enemies, defend electromagnetic pulse weapons from waves of enemies or face off against each other. Splinter Cell purists may protest that Conviction is wrong to do away with the legendarily unforgiving nature of the franchise. But the rest of us will find that it's much more fun to play than any of its predecessors.
Facebookhas responded to calls for increased online safety by announcing a range of new measures including a 24-hour police hotline, a £5m education and awareness campaign and a redesigned abuse reporting system, but has declined to add a logo linking to the Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre.The site is also calling for the government to introduce ways of sharing strategic data on offenders with other social networking sites, following a similar initiative in the US.Facebook cameunder renewed scrutiny last monthafter the conviction of the serial rapist Peter Chapman, who posed as a young boy on the site and later murdered 17-year-old Ashleigh Hall."The investments and partnerships we've announced today will transform social networking safety and security," said Elliot Schrage, vice-president of global communications and public policy at Facebook."They represent the most comprehensive public/private safety initiative since social networking began in the UK almost a decade ago."Child safety charities, anti-bullying groups and political parties have called for Facebook to introduce a so-called 'panic button' to the site, but Facebook has resisted.A spokesperson said the company had looked closely at safety solutions on other sites and concluded that a single reporting button would be less effective for users, and also create an overload of work for the police and the Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre (Ceop).Facebook's existing reporting procedure handles around 10,000 requests in the UK alone that include password requests and problems with profile pictures, as well as more serious problems. Instead of a single contact button or Ceop logo, Facebook has developed a reporting procedure accessible from the bottom of every profile, which asks the user to block a contact for nudity, racism, bullying or unwanted contact."We are testing and we are open to ideas, refinements and improvements, but we fundamentally feel that ours is the right approach. No other sites have one 'panic button' and we would not be doing our job properly if we added one button that sent all reports to Ceop," said the spokesperson."We know about web design and Ceop knows about child protection. We want to marry those skills – not argue about web design. We have some of the best engineers in the world creating for our platform."Facebook, which has 23 million users in the UK, is also dedicating £5m of advertising space for safety campaigns. Ads by charities including the NSPCC, Beatbullying and the Family Online Safety Institute will be displayed to all Facebook users, the site said, aiming to raise awareness of online safety not just to younger users but to parents and other users.Ceop's chief executive, Jim Gamble, last weekcriticised Facebookfor failing to "understand prevention or deterrence", but after extensive talks with the firm in Washington he said the new initiative was "one small step from doing the right thing" and is still insisting on a single, Ceop-branded button."There is no doubt they are looking to improve their position around child safety and we recognise that. What I am looking for is turning words into action," said Gamble. "In our view they are experts at creating a fantastic online environment but they are not experts in law enforcement, the power of deterrents and the reassurance it brings for mums and dads."Gamble also claimed Facebook had not passed on any reports directly to Ceop, though the firm claimed this was down to US legal restrictions.MySpaceincludes a "report abuse" link at the bottom of every profile, which links to an email contact form where users can detail cyberbullying, phishing, inappropriate content or a page that mentions suicide. EveryBeboprofile has a similar link, which asks users to chose between reporting site abuses such as hacking or explicit content to Bebo, or to send reports to Ceop.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
The 140-character social networking site Twitter has found a business model: "promoted tweets" written by advertisers, which will appear when people search on the site.The system echoes that used to huge success by Google, which serves adverts against search results.Twitter says it has already signed up a number of well-known organisations, including the coffee chain Starbucks, film-maker Sony Pictures, caffeine drink Red Bull, TV channel Bravo, the Virgin America airline and the US retailer Best Buy.Users will see sponsored tweets at the top of some Twitter search pages, which will be an ordinary tweet from the brand clearly labelled "Promoted" to distinguish paid-for tweets from normal ones.Later on, adverts will also begin appearing on the site's home page when users visit it which will be tailored to the user's interests, determined by the messages they publish and receive. They will also appear in the tweets that are sent to users when accessed through other applications – which makes up anything between 60% and 80% of access to Twitter.Biz Stone, the company's founder,said in a blog postthat sponsored tweets will have to "meet a higher bar" than normal ones: if people do not interact with them – by passing them on around the network – they will be removed. "Although our services extend beyond the web, Twitter ranks as one of the most popular sites on the internet. Over the years, we've resisted introducing a traditional web advertising model because we wanted to optimise for value before profit," Stone said.But the industry analyst Ovum said that the "promoted tweets" could irritate users: "The flip side of Twitter's immediacy is that if advertising messages are not very carefully positioned, users can hit back at brands and in real time, and brands will have little control over this," said Eden Zoller, Ovum's principal analyst.Twitter's reluctance so far to display adverts – even on its home page, which millions of people use each month to read and post to the service – has led to questions about how it will fund itself, as it is clearly unwilling to charge users to access the service. Stone acknowledged that, saying: "Believe me, when your name is Biz and you're a co-founder of Twitter, it also means putting yourself at the mercy of folks like Stephen Colbert who hit home runs with lines like, 'So, I assume that 'Biz' in 'Biz Stone' does not stand for 'Business Model'."The company is clearly taking a more aggressive approach to spreading its brand to put it on more platforms. Late last week it announced that it was buying Tweetie, one of the most popular applications for accessing Twitter on the iPhone, and would be recruiting its developer to produce a version for the Apple iPad.It isalready charging Google and Microsoft's Bingsearch engine for access to its content so they can offer it in search results, in a deal reckoned to be worth more than $10m annually.Twitter has seen dramatic growth since its inception four years ago. The number of visitors to the Twitter.com site has risen from 9.3 million in March 2009 to 22.3 million this March, according to comScore, a web metrics company. That does not include the people who access it through third-party systems. It is estimated to have around 45 million regular users, and has been valued at $1bn based on venture capital funding it has received.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
According to the tagline for Lips Party Classics, "it took decades to build this collection". Literalists will question this as most people with a knowledge of crowd-pleasers could come up with a large chunk of this playlist in about 60 seconds. Familiarity, however, is entirely the point.As the name suggests, it's a (budget price) song pack for the rather popular Xbox 360 karaoke title – 40 singalong classics to get the party started. Or, perhaps more likely, keep it going or finish it in drunken style. Regular karaoke crooners will have been here before and newcomers will, at least, know most of the titles on offer.Accordingly, there's a certain assumption on behalf of the publishers that you'll already have the necessary peripherals. While the game will work with most USB microphones, to get the most out of it you will need the "official" Lips ones. These have motion sensors within and, in order to maximise your score, you'll need to employ them on a regular basis. This could be anything from tilting the microphone up when the "Star Stream" meter is on screen, to playing an imaginary tambourine or, somewhat inevitably, a little air guitar when the on-screen instructions dictate.The game itself covers a few bases. There is a career mode, of sorts, where the points you earn take you up the rankings, from bathroom baritone to global superstar. Each individual performance is rated on a personal scale and also ranked on a global scale, thanks to the joys of online sharing. For the former, there are assorted medals to be won covering pitch, rhythm, performance, your party ability – hitting the tambourine, for example, in time with the instructions – technique and stability. As such, unlike other recent entries into this increasingly crowded sector, it does at least reward singing ability but also gives some credit for the enthusiasm of the performance, which levels the playing field a little in multiplayer games.For those interested in seeing how they compare to other bedroom rockstars, the online elements are slickly handled and use your Xbox Live avatar to good effect. Good performances will see them pick up new accessories, cups etc, and while it may be a sign that I need to get out more, watching my Xbox alter-ego grooving to Tom Jones and Gloria Gaynor raised a few smiles.The interface is easy to use – it takes longer to sync a new microphone than it does to get to grips with the game options – there are hundreds of downloadable songs that you can buy, and it's also easy to turn songs from your own music collection into karaoke "classics".However you cut it, Lips Party Classics is just another console karaoke title. But, as far as such titles go, this is about as good as you'll get.
In bygone days he might have used cardboard, plastic or even matchsticks to create a scale model of his home town. But architect John Wilkes has reached the final of an international competition by making an intricate 3D virtual model of Dursley, in Gloucestershire.Wilkes spent more than 1,000 hours reproducing almost 200 buildings and structures ranging from a church to modern storage sheds, the swimming pool and even his own house.After the recession left him short of work, Wilkes began modelling Dursley using 3D software in February last year having seen a virtual version of San Francisco online. "I thought, that looks great, why don't I do it for Dursley?" Wilkes said.The first building he created was Jacob's House, which once housed his father's shop and is now the town council's headquarters. Someone suggested he model one of the local churches, and he went on from there. Last autumn Wilkes decided to enter Google'sModel Your Town competition."I only started this as a hobby when I was out of work but I thought I've got a bit of a head start on this so I'll just carry on what I'm doing and enter my submission," he said. "Now naturally I'm hoping I can win the competition. I've now modelled virtually the whole town of Dursley, 197 separate buildings in very high detail."Wilkes was one of 500 individuals and teams who took part in the contest and faces stiff competition in the final from modellers from Spain, Germany and Peru. There is also a spectacular recreation of West Palm Beach in Florida, created by a 20-year-old university student.Wilkes' masterpiece is a combination of the lovely and mundane.Online visitorscan take a close look at the old church of St James from all angles or imagine goings-on inside the Carpenters Arms pub. There are phone boxes – old and new – benches, trees and the doctor's surgery. Wilkes has modelled the Grade II*-listed market hall, and taken the same care recreating two different public toilet blocks.He said he had not realised how many beautiful buildings there were in the town when he started the project. "There are some real hidden gems," he said. The winner of the competition will receive $10,000 (£6,480) for a local school.Meanwhile, Google has made its first UK acquisition,buying the mobile visual search startup Plinkfor an undisclosed sum. The Google chief executive, Eric Schmidt, has said he aims to acquire at least one company each month – as well as recruit more staff – to expand the business post-recession.Founded by PhD students Mark Cummins and James Philbin, Plink's first product was PlinkArt, a visual recognition app that analyses pictures of well-known artworks and paintings and identifies them. Users can share the photo with friends and click through to buy a poster version.The developers claim the app was downloaded more than 50,000 times in the six weeks following launch, and Plink has held discussions with galleries including the Tate over potential partnerships.• This article was amended on 13 April 2010. It originally said that Dursley market hall was listed Grade II, rather than Grade II*. This has been corrected.
We return to the issue of Evony, the online multiplayer game. You'll recall our story -Has Evony become the most despised company on the web?- which looked at how the game (free to join, potentially expensive to play) had annoyed a number of people because people had spammed links to it on blogs, the advertising seemed misleading (there are no large heaving boobs in the game) and when it was still called Civony (in May 2009), some of the images in the advertising were actuallytaken from other sourceswithout acknowledgement.Bruce Everiss, a 30-year veteran of the UK games industry, has posted a series of blogposts on his bruceongames.com site since last summer in which he has claimed that Evony, the game, previously had links to a Chinese company, UMGE, and that that was linked to a Chinese "gold farming" business – which gets low-paid workers to earn virtual money in online games such as World of Warcraft, and then sells it (against WoW's rules) to other players. (Puzzled about gold farming? We wentinside a company that does it.)Everiss has also detailed connections between UMGE and a company being sued by Microsoft for alleged click fraud on search engine adverts. (TheNew York Times detailedhow a man called Eric Lam was accused of involvement in a scheme involving WoW and vehicle insurance ads. Evony LLC has previously told the Guardian that neither the company nor its owners were associated with internet fraud or scams.)Evony, a company registered in Delaware in the US on 22 July 2009, then sued Everiss for libel over postings he had made since 10 July. Strangely, it chose to sue him in Australia. Howeverits case came unstuck within two days of court proceedingsand it abandoned it.That left Evony on the hook for defence costs totalling A$114,000 (£68,800); a payment was lodged with Everiss's solicitors today, 12 April, meaning that there are only small procedural matters to be dealt with and Everiss's pain is over.But there's plenty more that's interesting - and unanswered - about Evony. At the same time as abandoning the case in Australia, it hired a PR company in the US, which introduced itself by saying that "We rather recently began working with the folks at Evony, with the goal of helping them better communicate - something they acknowledge hasn't been their strong suit, so to speak."Might it help if Evony's corporate structure were less opaque? Here's how it appears to be set up:1) Evony LLC, registered in Delaware, US (which is very helpful to anyone who doesn't want anyone to know much about their company: it's famed as a low-tax, low-transparency place to register companies). Evony LLC says it is the owner of Evony, the game. It is believed that it also employs some developers and a lawyer in Boston. Its sole shareholder and director appears to be a woman called Lu Lu, who we'll have more detail on in a moment.2) Regan Mercantile LLC. Also registered in Delaware. The connection? While Evony LLC provides the game, itsterms and conditionsshow that it's Regan Mercantile LLC which provides the "service". But stay tuned.3) Regan Mercantile (Hong Kong). Registered in Hong Kong. Its director is the self-same Lu Lu: the identification provided for the registration is a Chinese passport number and an address inside China. Its sole shareholder is a company – Regan Mercantile Limited, registered in the Marshall Islands.Here's the strange thing: despite item (2) above,Everiss has evidencethat payments made in the Evony gameactuallygo to Regan Mercantile HK.So we have a game company registered in a secretive location (almost a tax haven inside the US) which says that it has its "service" (the gameplay) provided by another company registered in the same place, but when you pay money to it, it goes to a Hong Kong company. So Evony doesn't appear to receive any money itself - it all goes to Regan Mercantile HK or Regan Mercantile LLC. Or perhaps that third company, Regan Mercantile Ltd - the one registered in the Marshall Islands, which really is a tax haven: no banking transparency, no company transparency.So we asked Evony's PR company a few questions. They passed those on to Benjamin Gifford, who testified in the court case on Evony's behalf. (We'll come to his testimony presently.)1) Why does Evony remit all its money to Regan Mercantile? Which company is actually paying you?Gifford:Evony is the developer and rights holder to the IP of the "Evony" games. Regan Mercantile, LLC is the operator of the game. The shareholders are identical in both entities; that doesn't mean it's conspiratorial. Both Evony, LLC and Regan Mercantile, LLC pay taxes in the USA. Delaware is by far the most beneficial state to organize a corporation in the US and there is a reason why more than 50% of publicly-traded companies in the US, and 63% of the Fortune 500 organize there - it's good business practice.2) What's David Guo's involvement with Evony and with Regan Mercantile?Gifford:David Guo is the Development Director for Regan Mercantile, LLC. His background includes developing software and firewalls to protect people from hackers.3) Who, precisely, is Lu Lu, and is it true that she is related to a Chinese government official?Gifford:Lu Lu is the director of Regan Mercantile, LLC and a successful businesswoman. Her right to privacy should be respected and we at Regan Mercantile LLC and Evony LLC suspect that if she were Scottish, wild accusations wouldn't be flying, and we're not going to discuss her role with the company any further. Corporate innards like this have been an unfortunate distraction from the most successful free to play game online, and both Evony, LLC and Regan Mercantile, LLC hope attention will turn to the game that 16 million people have enjoyed. Both Evony, LLC and Regan Mercantile, LLC shareholders have relatives: neither of the companies has experienced any interference from any shareholder's relative so until they do, they wouldn't investigate whether a relative of anyone is one of the one million plus Chinese government officials or someone else.4) What is the reason for a company set up by someone who lives in Hong Kong, whose development team is in China, whose registration is in Delaware, to send funds elsewhere? If Evony is an American company, why doesn't it remit its funds to a US bank account? If it's a Hong Kong company, why doesn't it remit its funds to a HK bank account? If it's a Chinese company, why doesn't it remit to a Chinese bank account?Gifford:Evony, LLC and Regan Mercantile, LLC are privately held limited liability companies.But we did have another question:5) Does Regan Mercantile remit all its money to Regan Mercantile Ltd in the Marshall Islands?(The Marshall Islandshides the identities of bank accounts owners- which is the sort of thing that anyone looking to shelter money would love.)Gifford didn't answer that.But let's look briefly at Gifford. As Ars Technica points out that he didn't cover himself in glory in the witness box. (There's a long article there in whichEvony respondsto aninvestigative piece by the site.)The transcript shows how Giffordhad to reverse his claimed ownership of a BA and MBA: questioned by the judge, the conversation went thus:Q. It is not a PR tool, it is a lie?A. Yes, your Honour.(Note: it's not a good thing when the judge gets you to admit to having lied on documents before the court.)Ars Technica takes a rosy view of Evony:"In an effort to ditch the unpleasant stereotypes and rumors surrounding it, Evony seems like it's headed in the right direction. Employing respectable industry veterans [Walt Yarbrough, a former Electronic Arts producer], getting rid of those trashy ads, increasing transparency about its business practices, and moving away from a truly ugly lawsuit as fast as possible are all good moves."We don't have such a positive view of Evony - partly because its corporate structure, and the funnelling of money to unexamined bank accounts in countries which practice bank secrecy doesn't seem like good corporate practice to us. Questions remain - especially about the role and influence of David Guo.And finally, one other fascinating question. On its website, Evony claims that "Evony: Age II is played by 20 million players in over 167 countries." It's that "over 167", which is fascinating both in its precision and its vagueness, that we like. Given that there arereckoned to be 195 countries on earth, here's your supplementary: which countriesisn'tEvony played in? Or should we take those claims of the number of countries - and perhaps therefore the number of players - with a pinch of salt?Especially because, as you'll have noticed in the answer from Gifford, which came just last week, that he only seems to be claiming 16m players. Has it put on 4m extra in the few days since he emailed on 8 April? That's 25% growth in four days. We think we should be told.
Now that the Digital Economy Act has been adopted, the UK is on track to switch its mainstream radio stations from FM to the DAB digital radio system developed about 20 years ago and, technically, already obsolete. (DAB has been overtaken by DAB+, which is being adopted in those parts of the world that don't feel they are already so far into a DAB roll-out that they can't back out.)The target date for a switchover announcement is 2015, which seems unlikely. In ablog post, radio expert Grant Goddard says: "The reasons that digital radio migration/switchover will never happen are no different now than they were before the Digital Economy Bill was passed into law. For the consumer, who seems increasingly unconvinced about the merits of DAB radio, this legislation changes nothing at all. Those reasons, as itemised in my written submission to the House of Lords in January 2010, are…"You can download Goddard's submission as aPDFfrom parliament.uk, but his list of 24 reasons is reproduced below, with his permission. It shows the scope of the problem. You're welcome to add further points in comments.1. Existing FM radio coverage is robust with close to universal coverage&#8226; 50 years' development and investment has resulted in FM providing robust radio coverage to 98.5% of the UK population2. No alternative usage is proposed for FM or AM radio spectrum&#8226; Ofcom has proposed no alternate purpose for vacated spectrum&#8226; There is no proposed spectrum auction to benefit the Treasury3. FM/AM radio already provides substantial consumer choice&#8226; Unlike analogue television, consumers are already offered a wide choice of content on analogue radio&#8226; 14 analogue radio stations are available to the average UK consumer (29 stations in London), according to Ofcom research4. FM is a cheaper transmission system for small, local radio stations&#8226; FM is a cheaper, more efficient broadcast technology for small, local radio stations than DAB&#8226; A single FM transmitter can serve a coverage area of 10 to 30 miles radius5. Consumers are very satisfied with their existing choice of radio&#8226; 91% of UK consumers are satisfied with the choice of radio stations in their area, according to Ofcom research&#8226; 69% of UK consumers only listen to one or two different radio stations in an average week, according to Ofcom research6. Sales of radio receivers are in overall decline in the UK&#8226; Consumer sales of traditional radio receivers are in long-term decline in the UK, according to GfK research&#8226; Consumers are increasingly purchasing integrated media devices (mp3 players, mobile phones, SatNav) that include radio reception7. 'FM' is the global standard for radio in mobile devices&#8226; FM radio is the standard broadcast receiver in the global mobile phone market&#8226; Not one mobile phone is on sale in the UK that incorporates DAB radio8. The large volume of analogue radio receivers in UK households will not be quickly replaced&#8226; Most households have one analogue television to replace, whereas the average household has more than 5 analogue radios&#8226; The natural replacement cycle for a radio receiver is more than ten years9. Lack of consumer awareness of DAB radio&#8226; Ofcom said the results of its market research "highlights the continued lack of awareness among consumers of ways of accessing digital radio"10. Low consumer interest in purchasing DAB radio receivers&#8226; Only 16% of consumers intend to purchase a DAB radio in the next 12 months, according to Ofcom research&#8226; 78% of radio receivers purchased by consumers in the UK (8m units per annum) are analogue (FM/AM) and do not include DAB, according to GfK data11. Sales volumes of DAB radio receivers are in decline&#8226; UK sales volumes of DAB radios have declined year-on-year in three consecutive quarters in 2008/9, according to GfK data12. DAB radio offers poorer quality reception than FM radio&#8226; The DAB transmission network was optimised to be received in-car, rather than in-buildings&#8226; Consumer DAB reception remains poor in urban areas, in offices, in houses and in basements, compared to FM13. No common geographical coverage delivered by DAB multiplexes&#8226; Consumers may receive only some DAB radio stations, because geographical coverage varies by multiplex owner14. Increased content choice for consumers is largely illusory&#8226; The majority of content available on DAB radio duplicates stations already available on analogue radio15. Digital radio content is not proving attractive to consumers&#8226; Only 5% of commercial radio listening is to digital-only radio stations, according to RAJAR research&#8226; 74% of commercial radio listening on digital platforms is to existing analogue radio stations, according to RAJAR research16. Consumer choice of exclusive digital radio content is shrinking&#8226; The majority of national commercial digital radio stations have closed due to lack of listening and low revenues&#8226; After ten years of DAB in the UK, no digital radio station yet generates an operating profit17. Minimal DAB radio listening out-of-home&#8226; Most DAB radio listening is in-home, and DAB is not impacting the 37% of radio listening out-of-home&#8226; Less than 1% of cars have DAB radios fitted, according to DRWG data18. DAB radio has limited appeal to young people&#8226; Only 18% of DAB radio receiver owners are under the age of 35, according to DRDB data&#8226; DAB take-up in the youth market is essential to foster usage and loyalty19. DAB multiplex roll-out timetable has been delayed&#8226; New DAB local multiplexes licensed by Ofcom between 2007 and 2009 have yet to launch&#8226; DAB launch delays undermine consumer confidence20. Legacy DAB receivers cannot be upgraded&#8226; Almost none of the 10m DAB radio receivers sold in the UK can be upgraded to the newer DAB+ transmission standard&#8226; Neither can UK receivers be used to receive the digital radio systems implemented in other European countries (notably France)21. DAB/FM combination radio receivers have become the norm&#8226; 95% of DAB radio receivers on sale in the UK also incorporate FM radio&#8226; 9m FM radios are added annually to the UK consumer stock (plus millions of FM radios in mobile devices), compared to 2m DAB radios, according to GfK data22. DAB carriage costs are too high&#8226; Carriage costs of the DAB platform remain too costly for content owners to offer new, commercially viable radio services, compared to FM&#8226; Unused capacity exits on DAB multiplexes, narrowing consumer choice23. DAB investment is proving too costly for the radio industry&#8226; The UK radio industry is estimated to have spent more than &#163;700m on DAB transmission costs and content in the last ten years&#8226; The UK commercial radio sector is no longer profitable, partly as a result of having diverted its operating profits to DAB24. DAB is not a globally implemented standard&#8226; DAB is not the digital radio transmission standard used in the most commercially significant global markets (notably the United States)
'D'oh!' spelt with crops in the Farm Town app on Facebook. Photo byspugbrapon Flickr.Some rights reserved\A quick burst of links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamFarm Town virus warning: Malvertising at work? &gt;&gt; Graham Cluley's blog"If you suddenly get a warning that your computer is infected with viruses and you MUST run this scan now, DO NOT CLICK ON THE LINK, CLOSE THE WINDOW IMMEDIATELY. You should then run a full scan with your antivirus program to ensure that any stray parts of this malware are caught and quarantined." &#10;&#10;Once again, third-party advertising networks seem to be the source of the problemThe Adobe - Apple Flame War - Monday NoteAn overview by Jean-Louis Gassée, basically from the Apple point of view. (At Apple, Gassée saved the Mac by creating the Mac II, then founded Be Inc, which could have been the basis for Mac OS X.)Please do not change your password - The Boston Globe"Most security advice simply offers a poor cost-benefit trade-off to users," according to Cormac Herley, a principal researcher for Microsoft Research.A message from the future for 1984's Steve Jobs &gt;&gt;Pidjin cartoonSay, what's with the turtleneck, Steve? Did Gap exist in 1984?Apple takes aim at Adobe... or Android? - Ars TechnicaArs Technica does a run through Apple's oppressive Section 3.3.1 and speculates that "the harm done to Android could end up being even more substantial than the harm to Adobe".Achieving the ELIZA Effect in StarCraft &gt;&gt; University of Southern CaliforniaEliza is the chatbot. It uses a lot more punctuation marks than humans.Career opportunities &gt;&gt; Adobe Official Careers Page"Log in (returning users)&#10;Already registered?  Adobe has a new talent acquisition system. This system is optimized for performance on IE 6 or IE 7, running on Windows XP. Unfortunately it is not supported on Firefox, nor is it supported on a Mac at this time."&#10;&#10;Errr.. eh?Twitter buys Tweetie &gt;&gt; Twitter blogWow - Tweetie to go free in the Apple App Store because Twitter now owns it. An official Twitter iPhone client? Others will have to think what that implies.Which MPs are writing identical letters to constituents about the Digital Economy Bill? &gt;&gt; Help Me InvestigateCrowdsourcing (as one must, for this task) a political question.Greenpeace raids the cloud &gt;&gt; Nick CarrExpect some noise from Greenpeace about Apple, Microsoft and Google siting data centres in the (North and South) Carolinas, which use coal-fired plants.Steve Jobs admits iTunes for Windows is a sub-standard app - Jon Lech Johansen"Since iTunes for Windows uses non-native APIs such as CoreFoundation and CoreGraphics, Steve Jobs is effectively calling iTunes for Windows a sub-standard app," says DVD Jon. (But, sadly, this is also true: iTunes for Windows is a steaming pile of ... junk.)Consumed - iPad Envy - NYTimes.com"Scads of people boastingly self-identify as early adopters" but "paying full retail to be a vain beta tester doesn't sound like shrewd status-enhancing. It sounds like a sucker move."iPad Reboxing - Jeff Jarvis, Buzz MachineGuardian Media columnist Jeff Jarvis reboxes his iPad to return it to Apple because he can't see any use for it (video)Steve Jobs' response on Section 3.3.1 - Tao Effect BlogGreg Slepak, founder and CEO of an Apple developer, emailed Jobs, who replied that "intermediate layers between the platform and the developer ultimately produces sub-standard apps and hinders the progress of the platform".The Free Software Foundation was right - Geek TechnicaThe FSF protested at the launch of the iPad about Apple's closed proprietary system. "At that time, most of us might have laughed it off. But in light of recent Apple announcement, rules putting more restrictions on an already heavily controlled platform, this seems very appropriate," says Geek Technica.Top 10 Ways to Declutter Your Digital Life, 2010 Edition - LifehackerNothing surprising here but it has links to some software that may be new to you...Microsoft: Office 15 - not 2010 - to be fully OOXML compliant - Ars TechnicaMicrosoft technical evangelist Doug Mahugh says that Microsoft is "strongly committed to the standard and plans to achieve full compliance with the ISO-approved specification" in the next version. There wasn't time to do that for this year's version. However, there might be a plug-in to do that later.Why Microsoft did the right thing in ditching XP for IE9 - Ars TechnicaPeter Bright explains why Windows XP isn't being supported in the future: lack of security, compared with Vista and Windows 7, and the abiity to exploit accelerated graphics in Windows 7.Time to move on...  - James GoslingThe father of Java has quit, following Sun's takeover by Oracle. He says: "I don't know what I'm going to do next, other than take some time off before I start job hunting."Twitter proposal leads to tweeted wedding - CNetThey tweeted the wedding, not the honeymoon...Adobe: "Go Screw Yourself Apple" - TechCrunchTechCrunch repeats the post by Adobe Platform Evangelist, Lee Brimelow on his Flash Blog (below) and explains that "he is issuing a call to arms to developers. The lines are clear: you either stand with us or against us, and if you're against us (and complicit in Apple's policies) then you're not a real developer."Apple Slaps Developers In The Face - The Flash BlogOf restrictions in Apple's new SDK, the blog says: "This is a frightening move that has no rational defense other than wanting tyrannical control over developers and more importantly, wanting to use developers as pawns in their crusade against Adobe." Further: "The fact that Apple would make such a hostile and despicable move like this clearly shows the difference between our two companies."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Google has made its first ever UK acquisition, buying mobile visual search startup Plink for an undisclosed sum.The acquisition follows chief executive Eric Schmidt's statement that Google is aiming to acquire at least one company each month – as well as recruit more staff – as it expands the company post-recession.Founded by PhD students Mark Cummins and James Philbin, Plink's first product wasPlinkArt, a visual recognition app for mobile that analyses pictures of well-known artworks and paintings and identifies them. Users can then share the photo with friends and also click through to buy a poster version.The developers claim the app was downloaded more than 50,000 times in the six weeks following launch, and Plink have also held discussions with galleries including the Tate over potential partnerships.The two founders will work on Google Goggles, the search giant's visual search project.Cummins and Philbin founded Plink nearly two year ago while PhD students at the University of Oxford's mobile robotics and visual geometry groups in the department of engineering.The app was brought to Google's attention during the Android Develop Challenge in December last year, an initiative to promote innovative new applications for Google's mobile platform, when the pair won $100,000 – Plink's sole funding to date."It's time to be much more optimistic about the European tech startup scene," said Anil Hansjee, Google's head of corporate development for Europe, the Middle East and Africa."There is a lot of innovation here and now the tech eco-system across academia, corporates, startups, venture capital, and government is responding and supporting this effort."Hansjee said despite being an early stage company, Plink had "taken advantage of many of the ecosystem's offerings" to establish itself.The acqusition took just three months and will mean that both engineers move to the Google Gears project base in Santa Monica, California. The pair were unable to say how much product development would continue for PlinkArt, including an iPhone app, saying that all their new features and development work would be appearing in new Google products.James Philbin explained how Plink's technology works: "It picks out repeatable elements from the image you take and comes out with a statistical representation of them." That process works even at different angles and different lighting conditions."We found our way into art almost by accident, because we were really interested in visual search. But art is compelling space because it is so empty. There isn't even a definitive site for art," said Philbin.Plink used AllPoster.com's affiliate programme to populate the visual information in their database, alongside Wikipedia content for information on artists. Cummins said the app has great potential for museum goers and for guided tours."You can start doing some really interesting things when you have recommendation data, like personalised tours based on your favourite paintings. Museums are very interested in social sharing and Facebook."Cummins said the two had the classic startup dilemma of deciding whether to accept Google's offer – or to acknowledge that endorsement of the product and keep developing independently. But they opted instead to accept Google's offer and become the first UK startup to be bought by the technology giant."It feels good, yeah," said Philbin. "I'm not complaining."
As a child of the 1980s who read too many newspapers, the threat of global thermonuclear war was one that caught the imagination, and many of my dreams featured futile wanders of post-apocalyptic wastelands. These ruins were never as beautiful as those to be found in Fragile Dreams: Farewell Ruins of the Moon, but then my imagination has never had the processing power of the Nintendo Wii.The game follows the adventures of Seto, a young boy who has just buried the old man he lived with – the only other human he'd ever known. He had never even told Seto his name, never mind left him something useful like a crossbow or a sandwich maker. You are left with instructions to head east, where you might find other survivors of whatever calamity has wiped out most of humanity.After a brief meeting with a mysterious ballad-singing white haired girl, you set off to explore the ruins, aided by your trusty flashlight, which you use to light up the foreboding shadows via the Wiimote as the nunchuck takes care of your character's movement. Accompanied by a bossy robot backpack and, later, a ghost, you travel through the dark and broken scenery, fighting demon spirits and mutant dogs, picking up items that tell the tales of their long-dead owners, trying to find the girl – or anyone – so you may never be lonely again.As the name and premise suggest, Fragile Dreams might be the most emo video game ever made. But it's a beautifully realised world, and the nicely rendered imaginings of a ruined Japanese city, an atmospheric soundtrack and the mysterious and occasionally surreal story do give the game something of an emotional punch. It also contains some genuinely spooky moments, such as being attacked by ghost arms while plodding through an abandoned subway train, or being kicked to the ground by the giggling lower torsos of headless schoolgirl ghosts.However, the game does suffer from some serious flaws. The combat element to the game is tedious and poorly designed, with no variety from bashing away at the A button and a lack of target lock, which means you constantly have to wheel around to tackle your foe. In addition, the levels are often poorly set out, featuring unnecessarily long passageways and much doubling back. Occasionally the gameplay passes from irritating to infuriating, such as when you're forced to play hide and seek with the ghostly spirit of a young girl in order to obtain a key, and the inexactitude of the control system turns a simple task into a test of patience.These niggles detract from what it otherwise a nice slice of RPG lite, with a compelling narrative and dreamlike surrounds. Here's hoping a similarly immersive sequel without these minor problems is released before the real apocalypse.
Weekend gaming then - how was it for you? For me it was all about finishing off the single-player of Splinter Cell Conviction - multiplayer to follow next week - and yet more Sonic and Sega Racing. The superbly moreish Might and Magic on DS got yet another look-in too. The good weather and the new cricket season inspired a quick go of Ashes 2009 too. But what about you? How was your weekend gaming?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
WiiWare, Nintendo's online service that allows gamers to download new titles straight to the console, has, alongside its retro-based equivalent, the Virtual Console, not only proved extraordinarily popular but has also become a breeding ground for simple, yet innovative, games. A perfect example isChronos Twins DX, an exceedingly enjoyable if peculiar action-puzzler that offers the chance to manipulate time.Our hero, Nec, is blessed with the ability to exist within parallel realms; one in the future, the other in the past. Charged with saving his planet, Nec must team up with his pan-temporal self to overcome numerous enemies and intricate puzzles.Chronos Twin DX's hook is that you must control both of Nec's manifestations simultaneously on a split screen which shows both time zones. Thanks to some well-implemented controls, this impossible-sounding device works and the result is a beautifully minimal game that delivers inspired abstract conundrums and a healthy dose of shooting action.The originalChronos Twinstarted life as a cancelled GameBoy Advance title; thanks to WiiWare, it's been revised and refreshed and shouldn't be missed.
What happens when an inadequate legislative process meets networking technology? Answer: the Digital Economy Bill (aka Mandy's dangerous downloaders act), which finally staggered, slightly frayed, on to the statute book on Wednesday night.For those who haven't been following the story, here's the gist. Many moons ago, Stephen (now Lord) Carter, the former Ofcom boss, was commissioned to produce a report on the communications and networking strategy Britain should follow in order to drag itself into the 21st century. He duly produced theDigital Britain reportwhich, although remarkably unambitious on some issues, such as aspirations for nationwide broadband speeds, was also judicious and sensible on hot topics like file-sharing and "piracy". The stage was set for a deliberative path to legislation, probably timed for the next parliament.Then events intervened. Lord Mandelson was recalled from Brussels and took over the government or, at any rate, its entire industrial strategy. He was got at by some content-industry moguls who told him that file-sharing and digital piracy must be stopped in order to protect what they quaintly call Britain's "creative industries". Mandelson bought the idea and suddenly the Digital Economy Bill found itself on the fast track.The problem was that it's not easy to draft workable laws in this area. When the draft bill reached the upper house, its members unpicked it with fastidious intelligence, highlighting its flaws and seeking to improve it. The bill returned to the Commons in a state where it clearly required more work. But then the election was called and suddenly there was a need to decide which bills would go through on the "washup", by agreement of the two frontbenches.Normally, this applies only to uncontentious bills, which this bill was clearly not. Nevertheless, it was railroaded through. The result: a fatally flawed bill will now become a fatally flawed law. And the next government will have to pick up the pieces.How did this fiasco come about? Mainly because legislatures (both here and abroad) deal with intellectual-property issues in ways that are corrupt, irresponsible and inappropriate for modern technology.The corruption stems from the fact that the process is largely driven by obeisance to powerful industrial lobbies, in this case, the content industries and the trade unions, which seek only to protect business models that are being rendered obsolete by networking technology.Legislative irresponsibility stems from parliamentarians' failure to remember that intellectual property (IP) differs from other kinds of property rights, in that it's a government-granted, time-limited monopoly rather than an inalienable "right". Copyrights and patents represent an attempt to strike a balance between rewarding innovation on the one hand and the larger needs of society to build on that creativity, on the other. But in the last 50 years, the balance has become ludicrously skewed in favour of rights holders. The internet has highlighted the extent of the imbalance that now exists.Legislators have a responsibility to strike a balance between the competing needs of right-holders and of society. But when it comes to copyright legislation, they ignore the public interest. So what we have is the kind of evidence-free lawmaking represented by Mandelson's bill. "Imagine," writes Professor James Boyle, a noted cyberlaw scholar, "a process of reviewing prescription drugs which goes like this: representatives from the drug company come to the regulators and argue that their drug works well and should be approved. They have no evidence of this beyond a few anecdotes about people who want to take it and perhaps some very simple models of how the drug might affect the human body. The drug is approved. No trials, no empirical evidence of any kind, no follow-up. Even the harshest critics of drug regulation would admit we generally do better than this. But this is often the way we make intellectual property policy."The trouble is that in Westminster (or on Capitol Hill) nobody speaks for the future or for the wider needs of society. So we wind up with biased legislation framed in a rearview mirror. The fact that the internet makes it easy to copy and remix does indeed pose a challenge for IP regimes framed in the era of print. But that should be a spur for rethinking the regime, not for switching off the net – because that's what we will have to do in order to stop what's now going on.The dangerous downloaders act won't stop file-sharing, but it will certainly inhibit online creativity. This government has legislated in haste; it will be for the next one to repent at leisure.
In a nutshellItalian megastar plumbers and friends race go-karts round an assortment of tracks while players turn the air purple with expletives (hitting banana skins), exultation (stealing power-ups ) and screaming (sheer, unadulterated fun).Long gameTaking up the mantle from platform maestros Mario and Luigi,Super Mario Kartfirst hit the SNES in 1992, paving the way for numerous sequels and lesser imitations and making it the longest-running franchise of its kind. In its reincarnation on Wii's Virtual Console,SMKgives us another chance to play as banana-throwing heavyweight Donkey Kong Jr, who was never to be seen again in the series.Pole positionNext generation progenyMario Kart Wiimay trump the pioneeringSMKwith better graphics and ingenious floating steering wheel. And better gameplay and… well most things really, butSMKstill offers a fabulous racing experience and importantly the most addictive and ruthlessly competitive split-screen multiplayer this side ofGoldenEye.What's new?Absolutely nothing – it's exactly as you remember it. The soundtrack alone will have you weeping for a long forgotten youth. Play any of the four classic cups, each with five utterly brilliant tracks, or take on a friend in one of the four Battle Mode courses.Gimme gimme gimmeHold your horses, there still one banana skin to dodge. Proving that travelling in time is never  as easy as it looks,SMKmay only  cost 800 Wii points to download but you still need a Classic Wii (£15.99) or Gamecube controller to play it. Gah!
Can it really be only five years ago? YouTube is so culturally ingrained that thinking of a time before it existed is almost as mind-boggling as thinking of the pre-internet era itself. None the less, the site's first video looks very much like the historical artefact it is. Uploaded on 23 April 2005 "Me at the zoo" is a poor-quality, 19-second clip featuring co-founder Jawed Karim standing in front of San Diego Zoo's elephant enclosure. He says: "The cool thing about these guys is that they have really, really long, um… trunks." He pauses. "And that's pretty much all there is to say."Except of course, there was a lot more to say. Five years after Karim and two fellow PayPal employees Chad Hurley (now YouTube's CEO) and Steve Chen (now chief technology officer) founded their video-sharing website, it hosts more than 120 million videos and 300 million accounts. Thanks to its founders, who sold it to Google a year after its inception for $1.65bn, the word "viral" now suggests a popular video before it does a nasty infection.The site is a phenomenon that's generated a whole culture of sub-phenomena with its canon of YouTube celebrities. Never before had anyone with a video camera been able to reach a potential audience of millions and for many – including pensioner Peter Oakley and BMX rider Danny MacAskill (both featured here) – they did so by accident. But when  Hurley announced in 2007 that the site would start sharing advertising revenue with key "content providers" it meant that stars like  Tay Zonday (also featured) were able to turn their hobby into financially viable, even lucrative, careers.Tthe science behind what makes a video a hit and a vlogger a star remains vague. As Zonday says: "You could sooner herd cats than plan for the public to like or dislike something." It's an illuminating choice of phrase: cats are, of course, a pretty good bet. Likewise babies, though it's still perplexing that a merely moderately amusing family moment is the most watched YouTube video of all time. "Charlie bit my finger" is a 56-second clip in which Charlie, aged one, bites the finger of his big brother Harry, aged three. It's been viewed almost 177&nbsp;million times.Inanity, banality and peculiarity may flourish, but there remains much more to YouTube than cats playing keyboards. With its ability to grant an audience of millions to any clip the site has extraordinary democratic potential. Last year, footage ofNeda Agha-Soltanbeing shot in the chest in Iran was put on YouTube instantly and became an arrestingly powerful tool in theprotest movementagainst the Iranian government.The site's democratic character had already taken on new, practical uses with the so-called "YouTube election" of 2008, when what many had dismissed as a site for short-attention-spanned teenagers became a battleground for one of the most momentous presidential fights in history. And, in her own, albeit unorthodox way, Amber Lee Ettinger (aka Obama Girl) was part of that fight. Here we profile her and nine other figures who, for better or worse, have come to define the YouTube generation.TRISH SIE - The directortinyurl.com/trishsieTrish Sie at a Grammy party. Photograph: Marsaili McGrath/Getty"You can't look at a row of treadmills in a gym and not want to fool around on them," says director and choreographer Trish Sie, who created the much-watched video for OK Go's single "Here It Goes Again". Filmed in a corner of Sie's dance studio, it features the four-piece band prancing around in perfect sync on six running machines, and has been seen more than 50 million times since its release in 2006; it was performed live at the MTV Music Video Awards that year, and earned Sie a Grammy in 2007. "I filmed it months before it was put online, and didn't think anything had come of it," says Sie, the sister of OK Go's lead singer Damian Kulash. "My main concern after the shoot was getting the store to take back all the treadmills we'd had to buy…" Now 38 and living in Los Angeles, Sie directs music videos (another for OK Go is imminent) and TV adverts (recently for Levi's), and is plotting her first feature film.TLPETER OAKLEY - The grandadyoutube.com/user/geriatric1927Peter Oakley, who has fostered greater understanding of the elderly.Peter Oakley, an 82-year-old widower living alone in Leicestershirecountryside, is glorious proof that age need be no obstacle to online celebrity. Beginning eachvlogwith the cosy greeting, "Hello, YouTubers", Oakley's gentle dispatches – his thoughts on current affairs, as well as reflections on his life and history – have impelled millions to take him to their collective bosom. His first video, "First Try",  publisheduploaded on 5 August 2006, has been viewed nearly 3 million times; that year Oakley was the most subscribed user on YouTube. In one episode of his "Telling It All" series he professes himself "overwhelmed" by the responses, saying, and says, "If I should break down during this video then I will click the button and I'll come back to you as soon as possible but I just need to say thank you, thank you, thank you." Nonetheless, and has expressed unease over his fame, saying, that "The only people I want to talk to are you": he only wants to talk to his  devoted subscribers.HHOBAMA GIRL - The campaignertinyurl.com/ettingerChampion of democracy: Amber Lee Ettinger. Photograph: Brian Prahl / Splash NewsWho'd have thought that a very small pair of red hotpants would play their part in electing the first black president? Probably not Amber Lee Ettinger, aka Obama Girl and star of "I Got a Crush… on Obama" (17,280,518 views and counting). In the clip Ettinger lip synchs along to an R&amp;B tune (sample lyric: "You're into border security/Let's break this border between you and me") and dances alongside footage and photos of the prospective president. Those famous red shorts with "OBAMA" printed across the bum have their brief moment at the end. Speaking from New York, she says: "I always look back at the video and think, 'Boy, if I'd known it was going to become so big, I would have brushed my hair and done a makeup touch-up.' I was just having fun and all, like, 'Whatever!'" Ettinger was studying fashion design in New York and working as a model and actress, when advertising executive Ben Relles saw herwebsiteand cast her in the video for his siteBarelyPolitical. They shot it in about seven hours. Relles suggested that she might "get a couple of interviews" out of it but instead: "Overnight I was thrust into the media spotlight and the political world." And when she says "overnight" she means it: the morning after the video was posted on 13 June 2007, Ettinger says: "My house phone was ringing off the hook. Every TV station wanted to interview me and I was like, 'Oh my gosh, what did I get myself into?'" When Relles pitched the idea to her she'd agreed partly because it reminded her of aSaturday Night Livesketch. She realised just how big "Obama Girl" had become was When she was asked to be on that show: "That was the moment when I realised, wow, this is awesome."HHTAY ZONDAY - The singeryoutube.com/user/TayZondayTay Zonday, singing sensation.If you've watched the video ofTay Zondaycorrect singing "Chocolate Rain" you won't have forgotten it, not least because the song launched a thousand parodies. In it Minneapolis student Zonday (real name Adam Nyerere Bahner) plays keyboard and sings his irritatingly catchy and lyrically oblique song in an extraordinarily deep Barry White-esque voice. The video was posted in April 2007, "sat around for a few months" and then exploded. It's now had more than 49 million views. Zonday says: "I thought I'd have my week or two of fame and then it would go away, but it just kept going." He has some theories on his popularity: "Some people say I have a voice/body mismatch so there's that dissonance between a young-looking person and the deep voice.Some found comedy in my mannerisms; I wasn't originally intending comedy but, you know, if I've made somebody's day brighter then great." As a viral sensation, Zonday had countless approaches from agents and managers, "but I knew that I wasn't able to drop everything and go from being a nerd in my living room to being Michael Jackson". So he continued making music at home – and still does, only now the 27-year-old lives and works in LA.HHJUSTIN SANDERCOE - The tutoryoutube.com/user/justinsandercoeJustin Sandercoe teaches guitar.Australian-born Sandercoe began his career as a guitar teacher when he was 12 by putting up a sign in his bedroom window in Tasmania and charging his friends a dollar a lesson. he has since found a considerably larger audience. Now, aged 34 and living in West London, he's reached about 60 million people with hisguitar tutorialvideos, making him one of the most popular "how to" YouTubers of all time. He describes his videos as "helping the poor, the shy and those just too busy to make regular lessons", yet his online honour system, in which people who can afford to are encouraged to make donations, means he's able to make, in his words, "a comfortable living".HHDANNY MacASKILL - The thrillseekertinyurl.com/macaskillFrom Edinburgh bikeshop boy to globetrotting stuntman: Danny MacAskill. Photograph: Andrew Milligan/PAIn autumn 2008, bicycle-shop employee Danny MacAskill rode his trial bike around Edinburgh, jumping and flipping over railings and walls, while his flatmate filmed the action. The results were edited into a short film. "We had a premiere at my flat," recalls MacAskill, now 25. "We watched it three times, then flicked to the telly. It was a bit of an anticlimax."But one of his friends was impressed, and uploaded it to YouTube. MacAskill, who'd put up videos in the past, expected a few thousand hits. "The next day I was getting phone calls from the BBC," he says. "Literally the next day. Within about four days it had more than a million views."Now, 16 million views later, he has been signed up by Red Bull as one of its sponsored sportsmen, and tours the world performing stunts. He no longer works at the bike shop. "It's nice to see the world," says MacAskill. "I used to spend my holidays cutting peat on the Isle of Skye."TLPHILIP De FRANCO - The commentatoryoutube.com/user/sxephilOne fan said watching Philip De Franco 'is like drinking laughs from a fire hose'.His sarky wisecracking on the issues du jour has earned the bumptious 24-year-old the accolade of being the seventh most subscribed user of all time, as well asWired's sexiest geek of 2008 award. De Franco publishes a post four times a week (Monday to Thursday) in which he holds forth, breathlessly, on celebrity gossip for three or four minutes while also posing a question of the day (examples: "What would you do if you had one day left to live?" and "What is your fetish?") One online fan has claimed: "Watching him is like drinking laughs from a fire hose."He started posting videos on the site in 2006 when he was&nbsp;studying for his final exams at East Carolina University and soon became one of YouTube's first paid partners – a user whom it shares ad revenue with because they bring in so much traffic. Last year DeFranco claimed that he earned $250,000 dollars a year from his activities. Which, for a project begun as a time-wasting activity in a dorm room, isn't bad&nbsp;going.HHKEVIN AND JILL - The newlywedstinyurl.com/kevinandjillKevin Heinz and Jill Peterson danced down the aisle.Why walk down the aisle when you can dance? So reasoned Kevin Heinz and Jill Peterson when they got married in a small Minnesotan church in June 2009, and so choreographed a five-minute aisle dance for their wedding that involved body-popping ushers and a somersaulting groom. Innocently uploaded to YouTube soon afterwards – "Her dad had been harassing me to get it out to other family members," explained Kevin – the footage quickly went viral, notching 3.5 million views in two days and 47 million in the eight months since."It exploded," said Jill, who would see the dance recreated on prime-time US television in a wedding between two characters in popular sitcomThe Office, and subsequently parodied by YouTube pranksters who filmed the couple's imagineddivorceproceedings, also set to music.The song used in the original dance, "Forever" by Chris Brown, charted as a result of the craze, but it proved a controversial choice: Brown had recently been arrested for domestic abuse after assaulting his popstar girlfriend Rihanna. The couple deflected any criticism by encouraging viewers to donate to a relevant charity, and raised £10,000 in two months."I didn't expect this kind of reaction in a million years," said Jill, before recreating the dance in its entirety, complete with wedding party, outside New York's Rockefeller Centre for NBC'sTodayshow. The couple are still married.TLJUDSON LAIPPLY - The motivatoryoutube.com/user/judsonlaipplyMillions have watched Judson Laipply dance.Performing a mash-up of popular dance crazes through the ages – from Elvis's wobbly "Hound Dog" legs to Jay-Z's "Dirt Off Your Shoulder" shuffle – Judson Laipply has made himself the most-watched adult in YouTube history. (He'd be the most-watched person if it wasn't for the inexplicable popularity of a British baby called Charlie biting his brother's finger.) Since first uploading his "Evolution of Dance" video in 2006, Laipply has been seen twisting, kung-fu fighting and macarena-ing more than 140 million times, and in 2007 was commissioned by&nbsp;BBC4 to make a series of similarly styled idents. Internet fame has not swayed the 34-year-old from Ohio from his day job as a motivational speaker. "When all of this first happened," said Laipply during the TV debut of a follow-up dance, "Evolution of Dance 2", in 2008, "I told myself I want to stay focused on who I am." He has, however, published a book,Might as Well Dance.TLNOAH KALINA - The artisttinyurl.com/noahkalinacorrectEarned the ultimate accolade of a Simpsons parody: Noah KalinaStarting in January 2000, when he was 19, New York art student Noah Kalina took a close-up picture of his own face, every day, for six years. His initial intention was to display the photographs individually, but after YouTube's emergence in 2005 Kalina transformed his idea into a video project, editing together the 2,356 snaps into a continuous film and adding a haunting piano soundtrack composed by his then-girlfriend. The result made for an extraordinary, rather eerie study of the human face and its slow deterioration over time. (It's also interesting seeing how often Kalina gets a haircut.) Kalina now works as a professional photographer, his video having been viewed almost 15 million times to date. In 2007, the director of Lausanne's Musée de l'Elysée, William Ewing, said of the project: "There is nothing comparable in the history of photography" – and that same year Kalina received a greater compliment when his project wasparodiedby Homer inThe Simpsons.TL
Buying a fledgling social networking site is the quickest way for a giant corporation to gain credibility with a youthful audience, but it is also the fastest way to waste a few hundred million pounds.US internet giant AOL snapped up Bebo, the UK equivalent of Facebook, for $800m two years ago, only to announce last week that it was embarking on a "strategic review" that is likely to lead to its closure.At the time of the deal in March 2008, which made millionaires of Bebo's founders Michael Birch, a Briton, and his Californian wife, Xochi, AOL described it as "a game-changing acquisition" that "puts us in a leading position in social media". That lead evaporated remarkably quickly.Back then, Bebo had a global audience of between 7.1 million (according to online ratings company Nielsen) and 40 million (said Bebo). Most agreed it was the third largest social networking site in the UK behind Facebook and MySpace, although it had struggled to gain traction in the US.According to figures from ComScore, Bebo's global unique visitors in February 2010 totalled 12.8 million, down 45% on February 2009. Facebook had 462 million visitors, MySpace nearly 110 million, and Twitter 69.5 million.What went wrong? Being brought by a global corporation tarnished the cooler-than-thou image of an independent start-up that was particularly popular in school playgrounds. Aggressive expansion by  Facebook also played a part.Like most social networking sites, Bebo also benefited from a novelty factor that can disappear as quickly as it emerges. News Corp, the media conglomerate controlled by Rupert Murdoch, bought MySpace for $580m in 2005, only to watch its appeal diminish along with its value as it loaded the site with adverts.ITV took a gamble on another UK start up, Friends Reunited, paying £120m in the same year, only to sell it at a huge loss last year.Company insiders criticise AOL for failing to invest in Bebo, and point out that an acquisition by a corporate giant tends to stifle creativity. That may hide a more uncomfortable truth, however, which can make a mockery of the savviest owners. Social networking sites are businesses based on the fickle behaviour of internet users, who are free to move on to the next site when a competitor emerges and are offered few reasons to stick with their existing site. In that sense, Bebo was a fad.It may not have fallen into the trap of letting naked commercialisation scare its teenage users away, but nor did it evolve in the manner that many of its competitors did.Facebook is used by adults as well as children. Much of Twitter's power, influence – and likely longevity – derives from the fact it has become a professional tool, rather than an online outlet for gossip posted by its users.Start-ups rarely fare well when they are taken under the wing of a bureaucratic corporate parent, and Bebo may also have suffered by hitching its wagon to AOL, a business that has itself seen better days.It is owned by Time Warner, an American media giant that owns CNN,Timemagazine and a host of other assets, but the $162bn deal that brought AOL andTimetogether is now regarded as one of the most disastrous in corporate history.Buying Bebo was an attempt to build on AOL's status as the world's first internet provider by bolting on a new audience, but internet users are notoriously promiscuous.For Bebo's young users, the site turned out to be the online equivalent of a teenage crush – intense while it lasted, but it didn't last…
Democracy LiveWith the leadership debates and constant jousting in the run up to the general election, British politics is getting closer to sport every day – which is possibly why this site, which was originally designed with the 2012 Olympics in mind, works so well. Eight screens stream the activities of the House of Commons, the House of Lords, the Scottish Parliament and so on. While it doesn't make politics sexy, it manages to make it more technologically swish and open up the process of government. An excellent  "text to speech" search engine allows you to pinpoint and view topics.Kitsune NoirKitsune Noir. Photograph: Bobby SolomanNot to be confused with the similarly titled French music and fashion label, Kitsune Noir is the blog of American designer Bobby Solomon. The site does a brilliant job exploring products, design and music with videos about the London pirate radio scene and the return of Flat Eric, alongside links to artists like Josh Cochran, whose current work is a battle between warring armies of zombies and unicorns (a future Hollywood blockbuster surely). Solomon also collates The Desktop Wallpaper Project which turns out free downloadable designs for your computer, PSP or iPhone – the latest is Michael Cina's work for Gadi Mizrahi's single Oh Love. Elsewhere there's free music in the form of mixes and podcasts.Blog roll: DogsDo they play hands or paws?Dogs Playing PokerThe history of artist Cassius Coolidge, who uncovered the sinister canine gambling underworld.Dogs Who Look Like PeopleExploring the strange phenomena of dogs who not only look like people but also wear hats.BogginsAdam and Joe's virtual dog on Twitter, where he can drink from as many dirty puddles as he pleases.Dogs In CarsThe enduring pleasure of seeing a dog with its head stuck out of a car window.Hipster PuppiesDogs in Kanye shades share the trauma of their owners failure to get tickets for the upcoming Animal Collective concert.The Long And Short Of It AllWeiner Dog Derby news and the roll of sausage dogs in popular culture.Famous DogsDatabase of fictional dogs from Ace to Zoltan.What we learned on the web this weekYou've got the picture, now get the sound effects.An A to Zof Manga sound effectsWhere toget down to some pleasant business in LondonHumans aretoo stupid to prevent climate changeYou arenot you, you're meThe greatestlong takes in moviesThe Bardof Barking needs your helpThe bestloos in Las VegasHow hotelfires were dealt with in 1972Where ourFacebook events rate on the sausage scaleThis internetthing will never take offBen Foldssings to strangers on ChatRoulette
Batman: Arkham AsylumGame Of The Year Edition, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360Bafta's game of the year, Batman: Arkham Asylum, has been re-released to give anyone who made the honest mistake of missing it the first time around another chance. This version comes with fancy lenticular cover art, all available downloadable content and two sets of cardboard 3D glasses. Making very public use of a new system called TriOviz to produce the familiar, blurry coloured fringing around people and objects, its 3D works in a fairly unremarkable but mildly headache-inducing way. It's only when using Batman's Detective Mode to discover secrets, bathing your viewpoint in a monochrome sheen, that the 3D gets noticeably more effective, however wearing the glasses for long periods feels like wearing someone else's prescription lenses. With its 3D off, Arkham Asylum is a superbly entertaining game of stealth, puzzles and pounding henchmen into unconsciousness.Eidos, £39.99Modern Warfare 2– Stimulus Package, Xbox 360Modern Warfare 2.DLC, short for downloadable content, is a medium that promised so much yet often delivers so little. The exceptions to this rule are multiplayer shooting games, with Halo in particular gaining some truly memorable new maps both free and paid for. Modern Warfare 2's Stimulus Package features Crash and Overground from the original Modern Warfare, along with three completely new places to pour simulated hot lead and airstrikes into friends and strangers. These are Salvage, which is a big, snowbound scrapyard; Storm, set among deserted warehouses in the early moments of a thunderstorm; and Bailout, which takes place in a newly constructed block of flats in an American suburb. As a whole, the package could be more generous.1200 Microsoft Points (£10.20)ZombieSmash, iPhone &amp; iPod TouchZombieSmash.Zombies have permeated our collective psyche so thoroughly that it seems perfectly natural to simulate their invasion, casual dismemberment and eventual overwhelming victory on iPhone and iPod Touch, so you can conveniently carry your tiny army of the undead with you wherever you go. This particular zombie invasion is deflected using your thumbs to flick zombies around the screen, smashing them into the ground to kill them before collecting the silver and gold stars they leave behind, which you can exchange for power-ups between levels. Various special weapons spice up the wrist-destroying undead flinging action, including an Indiana Jones-style boulder that steamrolls all before it and a giant zombie-crushing breeze block, which is quite useful for preventing stragglers from eating your house. The zombies' ragdoll physics lend a macabre slapstick to their eventual demises, whether flung across the screen or blown to pieces, in a game that bills itself as "survival comedy".gamedoctors, 59p
Apple introduced some new terms to its developers contract on Thursday. Buried away in the 21,000-odd words of the agreement is this interesting clause:3.3.1 Applications may only use Documented APIs in the manner prescribed by Apple and must not use or call any private APIs. Applications must be originally written in Objective-C, C, C++ or JavaScript as executed by the iPhone OS WebKit engine, and only code written in C, C++ and Objective-C may compile and directly link against the Documented APIs (e.g., Applications that link to Documented APIs through an intermediary translation or compatibility layer or tool are prohibited).It's that last bit which is the real kicker. The stuff about private APIs - basically, calls to programming hooks that Apple reserves for its own applications on the iPhone and iPod Touch (the iPad uses a slightly different version of the OS) - isn't new.But that last bit is a shot not just across the bows of Adobe - it's a broadside aimed right into its new Creative Suite. Because CS5, which is being readied on the slipway right now and is due to be introduced next week (I was to have had a prebriefing on it yesterday but - ah, cruel fate - had to put that to write about the Digital Economy bill, now Act) - allows you to write apps in Flash but then to cross-compile them to run on devices like, ooh, iPhones or iPod Touches.See, it'seven been touting it on its blogs:"Adobe® Flash® Professional CS5 will include a Packager for iPhone that will let you publish ActionScript 3 projects to run as native applications for iPhone. These applications can be delivered to iPhone users through the Apple App Store.*"Oh yeah, the asterisk in that sentence? You scroll wayyyy down and you get to the caveat: "* Delivery through the App Store requires participation in the iPhone Developer Program and approval of the application by Apple."And now Apple is saying: no way. You write it in something that's one of our favoured languages - particularly Cocoa Touch - or you don't get it on our device. Perhaps the asterisk ought to have a BLINK marquee around it and a giant pulsing arrow.We've already seen thatApple wants to keep Flash off the iPhone OS devices(which covers iPhones, iPod Touches and iPads). Its reasoning: that Flash programs suck up CPU and cause more crashes than it wants (basically, that they spoil the user experience). The absence of Flash on the iPad is really quite annoying, not just for users but also for news organisations and publishers which want to be able to serve video and ads: Apple's refusal, tied to the fact that it's selling a lot of these devices, and that they're a growing proportion of the mobile access of news websites, means that it would be easier all around if Apple would just let them serve Flash.OK, so Apple won't. But what's the reason for this change to the developer agreement? After all, what is there to complain about in a process that lets developers produce programs that run in Flash but then cross-compile to run on the iPhone OS deviceswithoutFlash?Adobe seems discomfited. In a statementto the New York Times, it said: "We are aware of Apple's new SDK language and are looking into it. We continue to develop our Packager for iPhone OS technology, which we plan to debut in Flash CS5." (And: "Apple did not respond to a request for comment." Did you guess that would happen?)John Gruber, who first pointed out the changed clause, interpreted that statementthusly. And he's been analysingwhy Apple would have made the change:"what Apple does not want is for some other company to establish a de facto standard software platform on top of Cocoa Touch. Not Adobe's Flash. Not .NET (through MonoTouch). If that were to happen, there's no lock-in advantage. If, say, a mobile Flash software platform — which encompassed multiple lower-level platforms, running on iPhone, Android, Windows Phone 7, and BlackBerry — were established, that app market would not give people a reason to prefer the iPhone."And, obviously, such a meta-platform would be out of Apple's control."Yes, control. It's all about control. Gruber again:"I'm not saying you have to like this. I'm not arguing that it's anything other than ruthless competitiveness. I'm not arguing (up to this point) that it benefits anyone other than Apple itself. I'm just arguing that it makes sense from Apple's perspective — and it was Apple's decision to make."And what do developers think? There's a lot of jaws dropped. Here's one from Dominique Jodoin, president and CEO of Bluestreak Technology, which describes itself as "the second largest provider of embedded Flash solutions in the world (after Adobe)":"with Apple leaving Flash off the iPad and iPhone, [plus] Microsoft's announcement of no Flash support in the new Windows Phone, and the emergence of HTML5 as a new standard to compete with Flash this situation presents a serious challenge for Adobe going forward."He goes on to point out some facts we probably already knew:"Steve Jobs and some frenzied analysts may enjoy positioning Flash as a dying technology [actually, nobody says it's dying; Jobs and his engineers just dislike the crashes and the CPU use - CA] but let's just look at the facts as they stand today:"1.2 Billion mobile phones are Flash-capable; 70% of online gaming sites run Flash; 98% percent of internet-enabled desktops use it; 85% of top 100 websites use Flash; it's the #1 platform for video on the Web – 75% of all videos use Flash (including Hulu, Disney and YouTube); 2-3 million person Flash developers community; 90% of creative professionals have Adobe software on their desktops."With numbers and penetration rates like that, the better question is why wouldn't I choose to support this technology? None of the facts indicate that Adobe Flash is disappearing anytime soon."The trouble with this analysis is that it doesn't tell us much about the future. It may be that 85% of the top 100 websites use Flash, but is that because they're using it to run ads or video (as the Guardian, where you should be right now, does)? And the bit about 1.2bn Flash-capable phones is interesting, but doesn't tell you if those phones are actually using it. I mean, my phone is email-capable - but there's not a chance in hell of my trying to set it up, because its interface is horrendous.Certainly, Flash isn't going to vanish. Well, not overnight. (It might be superseded by something - also from Adobe.)The real question is, what sort of meeting did Apple staff have where they determined that it was a good idea - and a necessary idea - to block cross-compilation? "Hey, Adobe's doing a cross-compiler that will generate iPhone OS programs. Do we like that?" In code terms, they should be indistinguishable from a native app (although they might look a bit horrendous: Gruber points to the Kindle app, cross-compiled using Qt, as an example).It's just possible that Apple is trying to enforce some sort of user interface guidelines here, having seen the horrors of the Kindle app and yelped; on the Mac, programs created with RealBasic and Java have a similar ability to look like something lovingly built with a knife and fork.The timing, though, speaks of a snub - although at least those developers will be happy that Apple did it now rather than after CS5 was released. Power games? You bet. And Apple is again demonstrating that if you control the hardware and control the gates, you control the whole of the experience. The odd thing is, people - as in users - seem to like it, judging by Apple's financial results.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?Without question, my favourite piece of technology is my Nokia n900 phone. It is super amazing and pisses all over the iPhone. The ingenious bit about it is that it's open source, so you can program it to do whatever you want. I used to do some work with Linux when I ran a post-production house, so we've worked out how to make it do all sorts of funky things. Some boffins who we do some work with have connected it up to a Rollodex, so as you spin through your contacts, a motor spins through the rollodex. And they canibalised an old Speak &amp; Spell, so you can send texts that sound like ET. It's the best thing ever.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I use the phone 24/7 – my friends joke about me growing a phone-shaped cancer on the side of my head.What additional features would you add if you could?I would want it to talk to my Mac better, but I don't think that's going to happen.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Of course – everything is. However, the Speak &amp; Spell and Rollodex were supposed to be obsolete but now they are coming back, so never say never!What always frustrates you about technology in general?I think people make new devices in such a way as to make them obsolete very quickly. Sometimes I want to punch people who make technology.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?The motor car, of course, because I was a danger to myself and others when I drove – I was crashing all the time. And the car itself is just fucking up the planet.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?To never, ever, ever buy the first of anything that comes along – always wait.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I'm an utter nerd. I try to pretend that I'm a cool, funky director of documentaries, but I'm a complete and utter geek.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?I used to run a post-production company for a few years and the most expensive thing in that was an HDD5 deck, which cost us £80,000. It's now an obsolete format, and I sold it two-and-a-half years later for just £16,000.Mac or PC, and why?Macs, for video editing – I edit all my films using Final Cut Pro, and Avid is the most pointlessly shit platform ever invented.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download?I download illegally quite a lot and I encourage people to do the same to my own films. Basically, the studio system is just there to rinse money out of the public and the filmmakers. Why give another dollar to Steve Jobs? That 99c isn't going to the artist, it's going to Sony, or Warners, or whoever.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?I filmed an event last month with robot pole dancers. I tried to take one home with me, but she wouldn't have a bar of me. So yes, I think replace humans with robots wherever possible.What piece of technology would you most like to own?It's just got to be hover boots – we were promised back in the 80s that we'd have them by now. But where are they?•Starsuckers, written and directed by Chris Atkins, is out on DVD on Monday
My iPad arrived yesterday afternoon via a friend in the US, and yes, it largely lives up to the hype: it's shiny, elegantly realised and above all potentially very useful. Well, apart from a few wrinkles, which range from a mere raise of the eyebrows to an exasperated WTF?First, Apple: why on earth did you leave out the Clock app? That omission alone means I can't ditch my iPod Touch on my travels because my iPad won't wake me up. The iPod Touch has a built-in Clock app which will set off an alarm at a given time; the iPad doesn't.Sure, there are loads of third-party clock apps, free and paid-for, available via the App Store, but none of them run in the background/when the device is asleep as the native app does, which means if you want your iPad to be an alarm clock, you'll have to leave it on all night and your chosen clock running.On the subject of missing apps, what has Apple done with Calculator? That's a basic functionality of even the dumbest smartphone these days. And no Voice Memos either. Nor Weather. I'm more annoyed by that than I expected, as Weather is a simple but nicely executed app that I rely on more than I realised. And yes, again, I know you can get third-party versions, but it would be nice if Apple had included them (or the original) with the iPad.I'd also like haptics (that's touch feedback) for the onscreen keyboard, please. It's a very good stab at a virtual keyboard, and you can toggle keyboard click sounds on and off, but the very fact that the screen is finally big enough to touch-type on means that the absence of tactile feedback when you hit a key is a big omission. I don't think I'd like to type for long periods of time on the iPad.Other annoyances: it doesn't charge while it's syncing – which could mean you go off leaving it to suck in your huge music library and equally huge photo library only to come back and find that it's died in the middle of the process. Make sure it's charged up before you start syncing.Next (though this could be me being useless, but I don't think so) I couldn't get it to exchange files via Bluetooth with my Macbook Air, which means that you can't dump a few photos on to the device on the fly – you have to fire up iTunes and go through the whole syncing process.Mostly, the size is about right – though I can't see myself reading ebooks in bed as it's a bit weightier than I expected. However, it is too big to be just an iPod: I felt like Dom Joly with his oversized mobile when I dug it out of my handbag on the underground to fire up some music; plus you can't manage it single-handed as you can with an iPhone or iPod Touch. In fact, the need to use both hands when doing stuff is something I'll have to get used to – one of the things I love about the iPod Touch is being able to everything with just one hand.Still with the iPod app, the interface has been revamped, as indeed have the other native apps such as Mail and Contacts, but in this case I'm not convinced it's an improvement. It feels busy and harder to navigate, and if there's a way to turn off the Coverflow view, I haven't found it yet. (The picture above shows what it looks like: is there a hidden button?)And of course theusual gripes about the lack of Flashapply, but it is even more infuriating on the iPad than on its smaller siblings; on those you're more often going to pick a steamlined mobile version of a site. Websites look gorgeous on the iPad, especially in portrait orientation, but all too often there's a big black hole where content should be.Presently - though I'm hoping this will be fixed as soon as it lands - that also means that themobile streaming version of the BBC iPlayerdoesn't work. I'm hoping this is just a browser recognition issue; iPlayer works brilliantly on the iPod Touch/iPhone but for now sullenly refuses to play on the iPad. So no catching up on EastEnders in bed, then. Maybe it will be the ebooks after all.I'm hoping most of those wrinkles will be addressed by theupgrade to iPhone OS 4.0– due in the autumn for the iPad. Until then, be seduced by the hype – but do bear in mind the flaws.
I was given a Packard-Bell EasyNote R1938 to repair. It should now work, but when I press the On button, it asks for an HDD password, sits for about a minute, then shuts off.Andrina BellLaptops often have BIOS passwords (set in the ROM chip) and some have HDD hard drive passwords. In the latter case, the password may be held in the hard drive's firmware and on a secure part (a Host Protected Area) of the hard drive.In fact, a hard drive can have at least two passwords: a master password, set in the factory, and a user password. You need the user password to access the data on the drive. However, it seems that if you have the master password, you can erase all the data on the drive, leaving you with an unlocked but empty drive.You could contact Packard-Bell (which is now owned by Acer) to see if you can get a master password. You can probably do this by entering the serial number on the support site athttp://support.packardbell.com/uk/. I think some PC manufacturers can also erase and reset a drive if you return it. However, I'd just try replacing the hard drive in the laptop with a compatible model. It doesn't have to be a new one.Unfortunately I'm not sure if this will work because the password may have been set in the BIOS chip. Packard-Bell laptops typically use a Phoenix BIOS that has options for setting four passwords: Supervisor Password, User Password, HDD Password and HDD Master ID. If this is the case, try entering the backdoor password, which is phoenix. For more details, see the Password Crackers, Inc site athttp://www.pwcrack.com/bios.shtmlEven trickier problems arise if the hard drive contains data that has not been backed up, because there's no obvious way to access it. You could, for example, try to read the data stream as the HDD firmware communicates with the Host Protected Area then try to extract the user's password. Or you could take the hard drive apart in a clean room and try to read the data directly, which is a job for a specialised data recovery company. The cost would be far more than the laptop is worth.There are a few programs you could try, such asHDD Unlock WizardandRepair Station. These cost money, but you can download trial versions to find out if they will work.The drawbacks with HDD Unlock Wizard are that it only works with 32-bit Windows, and you must have a working operating system with an admin account. As far as I can see, this would only work if you could boot the laptop from a CD-ROM or whatever, or if you moved the hard drive to a different computer and accessed it as a secondary drive. Also, HDD Unlock Wizard will only allow you to erase/re-use the drive, not access existing data.By contrast, the blurb for Repair Station says: "Repair Station has the ability to access the Firmware Area and reset the password, thus making your hard drive unlocked. Unlocking process is done automatically and takes just a few minutes. Since Repair Station does not alter partitions or file systems, it is absolutely safe to your data." I think it only works on ATA hard drives, but that's what the EasyNote should have, according toPackard-Bell's spec sheet.The last resort in such cases is to send the drive to an expert data recovery company. Vogon International, in Oxfordshire, has been top of my list for more than a decade, but its site now redirects to the highly-reputableKroll Ontrack, in Surrey.A good UK alternative isUltratec Ltd, which used to trade from easydatarecovery.co.ukEither way, it's probably not worth spending a lot of money repairing an old laptop. You can buy arefurbished Packard-Bell EasyNote R1938running Windows 7 on eBay.co.uk for £150, or pick up a better system new for £250-£300.
The unremitting stream of hype for Apple's iPad media-consumption console doesn't seem to have educated many of the visitors toMyVoucherCodes.co.uk. The company says that of the 1,374 people who filled in its survey, "almost half, 49%, thought the iPad was a mobile phone. Only 41% correctly identified the iPad as a tablet computer, whilst 6% believed it to be an MP3 player."Of the rest, 2% thought it was a handheld games console (well, in conceptual terms, it's a lot like a PlayStation Portable), and 1% thought it was a camera (that function won't be added until after people have bought the current model, which lacks one).Still, hype has benefits. MVC says: "Although three fifths of people wrongly identified the function of the Apple iPad, 81% said they were interested in buying one."What, even though they don't know what it does, what it costs, and that it's not even available in the UK? Still, perhaps that's not a surprising number when you're surveying people who are actively looking for money-off vouchers….This appears to be a self-selecting survey on a website, not a controlled study representative of the UK, but still, the 673.26 people who think the iPad is a phone could be in for a shock.
Only one thing mattered to the UK's digital constituency this week: the digital economy bill. The election date announcement meant the #debill, as it is referred to on Twitter, washurried through parliament before the election.An ambitious bill designed to kickstart the UK's broadband-enabled future and tackle internet piracy, it deserved more scrutiny than two hours' late-night discussion in an empty chamber, but was passed on Wednesday with Tory support.Techies that cared watched MPs give gushy statements about saving the creative industries, but ignoring the clumsy clauses that could theoretically block sites including Google and Wikileaks if anyone claims they are used for copyright infringement. Steps designed to stop filesharing could also end up discouraging shops and public bodies hosting open public wifi.As ever, Twitter is the back channel of choice for irreverent, real-time discussion, and commentators such asKevin Marks,a former engineer for the BBC, Apple and Google, have been reinterpreting proceedings for the less politically inclined: "You'll care about the #debill when Youtube, Blogger, Google Docs are blocked for copyright infringement in the UK," he scolded @jeddings, and later reported on the Lords debill debate.Marks tweeted: "Lord Whitty describes how Mozart format-shifted Allegris Misiere and distributed it through his social network", referring toone of the fiercest critics of the bill, "At least the Pope realised that this was a good thing" and retweeted @superglaze's "Music industry risks appearing 'less entrepreneurial than the 18th century papacy'".Furious developers have been rapidly hacking together protest sites using political data and organisational tools.debillitated.heroku.comgave the story in numbers: 25,000 tweets, 20,000 letters written, 64% of MPs didn't turn up to vote and 187 "strolled in at the end without bothering to listen to the debate".Guardian developer Dr Chris Thorpe builtdidmympshowupornot.comin a few hours, which works out the answer from a postcode. Thousands of people onwhatdebill.orgpledged not to recognise #debill once passed. Even Google seemed discreetly in on the act: a search for "who voted for the debill?" helpfully suggested "did you mean 'who voted for the devil?'".If this is the digital constituency, its representative on earth is Tom Watson, MP for West Bromwich East – and geek. Watson stuck up for his digital constituents in Wednesday's vote, defying Labour whips for the first time in his nine parliamentary years. "First time I've ever broken the whip in the chamber," he tweeted. "I feel physically sick."Hell hath no fury like a mad techie scorned and, once the bill had passed, attention shifted to listing MPs who had vote no, or not voted at all – particularly those in marginal seats such as Glenda Jackson and Frank Dobson.Political activist@bristly_pioneerasked George Galloway's office how he'd be voting: "George Galloway – although saying he was going to vote against #debill – didn't even bother to turn up. Angry phone call on the way!" Biology graduate Robert Shepherd told his MP: "@annebegg – Not turning up to the #debill reading has cost you my vote."The last straw was when it was revealed that Stephen Timms –- the minister for Digital Britain – was under the impression that "IP address" referred to "intellectual property", rather than internet protocol. Expect him to appear onFail Blogany time soon.
The (new) morning paper. Photo bysmayson Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHero Programmer Quest &gt;&gt; KloonigamesFor hardcore C programmers only: find the bugs.Digital economy gets its Act together &gt;&gt; Guardian Media MonkeyIt's only taken 539 days to go from idea to Act. Including two hours of debate.iPhone OS 4.0: Apple launches Xbox Live-style Game Center &gt;&gt; GamesblogThe iPhone gets an online social gaming platform. Is there anyone Apple isn't coming after?Tech Entrepreneur Peter Gabriel Knows What You Want &gt;&gt; BusinessWeekThe Filter has now signed US contracts including NBC: "In early April, NBC announced it was licensing The Filter's technology on its Web sites. So if you visit NBC's Saturday Night Live online and the site suggests you watch a clip from 30 Rock, you will have been touched by The Filter's hidden hand."iPhone OS 4 vs Android: Why Apple just lost the game &gt;&gt; The Next WebBrad McCarty imagines that open source and freedom can outweigh a lust for shiny shiny objects and endless marketing hype.5 Must-Have iPad Music Apps &gt;&gt; MTV Buzzworthy BlogThe big screen might mean that the iPad is some peoples' next piano.Live from Apple's iPhone OS 4 event! &gt;&gt; EngadgetDoubtless reported using an iPad. No?Accuracy vs Completeness: OSM vs Meridian 2 &gt;&gt; SuprageographyHow does OpenStreetMap's detail compare with Ordnance Survey's new free roads detail?Intel to Ship Samples of Experimental 48-core Processor &gt;&gt; PCWorldLimited quantities of the 48-core processor will be sent primarily to academic institutions in the next quarter. "The chip may not become commercially available as it is part of a research project, but features from the processor could be implemented in future chips."Most Successful U.S. Broadband Over Powerline Network Shut Down &gt;&gt; DSL ReportsMains electricity cables have long been touted as a cheap way to deliver broadband to homes, but turning the idea into a workable business has proved harder than expected.Complicating Relationships in Media: Apple, NY Times Dealings Raise Questions &gt;&gt; Dan GillmorPublications are on dangerous ground when they aim to profit from things they're reporting, like the iPad. "Jumping into an ecosystem like this violates fundamental journalistic principles, I believe. And the more popular the iPad gets the more potentially dangerous this could become to the information ecosystem," says journalist Dan GillmorHow Twitter's 1 API Gave Birth to 43 New APIs &gt;&gt; Programmable WebAn ecosystem in action.April 2010 Apple Special Event &gt;&gt; Apple.comSee if you can guess what clothes Steve Jobs wears to introduce iPhone OS 4HuffPo Launches Separate Twitter Edition'; More Focus On Real-Time News &gt;&gt; PaidContent"The idea is to produce an entirely separate edition from The Huffington Post with the same kind of content we always have provided—but super-charged, if you will, for Twitter users," Lerer told paidContent.The man who took the iPad background photo &gt;&gt; ARTINFO.comIt's Pyramid Lake, Nevada, in case you're passing by.IBM denies breaking open-source pledge &gt;&gt; ZDNetIt turns out that IBM's support for open source only applies when it makes a profit for IBM. When open source threatens to reduce IBM's profits, it doesn't support it.Apple banning Flash applications from iPhone 4.0? That stinks &gt;&gt; Tim AndersonIt looks as though Apple isn't just preventing people from offering apps it doesn't like, it will prevent them from developing them in ways it doesn't like. New SDK terms appear to ban the use of Flash-based development,  and MonoTouch, which compiles C# and Microsoft.net apps for the iPhone.How the iPad Is Already Reshaping the Internet (Without Flash) &gt;&gt; Gizmodo"One of the more interesting effects of the iPhone was that it drove a ton of websites to format their content for the phone in at least of two ways, and often both: iPhone-optimized sites, with more finger-friendly navigational elements that look almost app-like, and actual iPhone apps. We're seeing a repeat with the iPad, though the adjustment appears to be less about the screen size than its lack of Flash support, and there's the fact a lot of sites will be ready on day one."Black Easter Monday At Denki Towers &gt;&gt; DenkiRedundancies beckon at the games maker. "My advice?  If you're an Independent Developer, and you're not selling games directly to customers yet, start worrying, because this industry is changing beyond all recognition."How MPs voted on the Digital Economy Bill committee stage &gt;&gt; TheyWorkForTheBPI.comInteresting to see those against: Tom Watson rebelling for the first time ever, and various other Labour members making up the small band of rebels. Maybe Sion Simon was right - they are up against Darth Vader.Apple reportedly planning a smaller-size iPad for 1Q11 &gt;&gt; Digitimes ResearchApple is reportedly scheduling a smaller 5- to 7-inch version of the iPad that is expected to launch as soon as the first quarter of 2011, according to Digitimes Research senior analyst Mingchi Kuo. Price: "below $400".You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
