What is facebook.com?This question doesn't really need answering, but what is interesting is how this social network uses cookies on other websites – especially if you do not have a Facebook account.What information is facebook.com tracking?The Facebook tracker that appears in our data is not for targeted advertising. In fact, Facebook explicitly told us it has no need for such a thing – the information its users willingly volunteer on the platform is a far richer resource for advertising.The tracker we are seeing in our data is, most likely, from Facebook's "social plugins". These are tools that link back to Facebook in some way, such as the "like", subscribe" or "recommend" buttons.They appear on other websites through the use of "iframes", a very common way of embedding content on to a web page. In order for this to load, Facebook's servers will know the page, the time and date it was loaded and the browser IP address.According to the December 2011Irish Data Protection Commission (DPC) audit(PDF) of Facebook, the cookies that are set and the data required by these plugins can differ.If you do not have a Facebook account and your browser has loaded a facebook.com page, then no cookie is set when you browse a page with social plugins.If you do not have a Facebook account but your browser has visited a facebook.com page in the past, three cookies would have already been set on your browser. One is for security purposes and the other two are used to track registration effectiveness. If a user later decides to create an account, the aim is to find out what convinced them to do it. This is done by recording the first and last Facebook pages the browser visited.If you have a Facebook account, you will have a cookie set on your browser containing a unique ID that relates back to your profile. If you have checked "keep me logged in", the cookie will also record this.When you visit a page with a social plugin,it will check that cookie. If you are signed in, it will use your unique ID to show you how many of your friends have clicked on the like button and whether or not you have liked the page yourself.Controversy erupted late last year around this cookie, as it was discovered that a user's unique IDwas not deleted when they signed out of Facebookand so could be read when a page with social plugins was loaded. Facebook says this has now been changed.Is the data ever matched to personally identifiable information?If you click on a Facebook "like" or "share" button, this is displayed on your Facebook wall. In order to do this, Facebook has to match this action with your account details. This is done through the log-in cookie.How is the data used? Is the data sold to third parties?Information about the social plugins you have clicked will be shown to your friends, both on Facebook or on the site that you clicked the button on. In itsvideo introduction to social pluginsFacebook says this is not shared with anyone else.Facebook say your information is not shared with third parties. If you add content to Facebook, you own the data.Due to concerns that Facebook may be using social plugins to influence its advert targeting,the Irish DPC tested web pages(PDF) with "like" or "share" buttons on them (p184-185). It concluded:- Browsing websites that had share buttons did not appear to influence the advertising targeted at a user.- Pressing the "like" button either on a Facebook page or on a page with a social plugin mayinfluence the advertising targeted at the user.- The advertising targeting appears to be focused on particular Facebook pages and/or veryspecific keywords.- Browsing to a  category of websites or interests (e.g. "parenting/childcare" or "motorcycles") did not appear to have any influence on the advertising targeted at a user.What other ways does Facebook track? What information?Facebook lists all the ways it receives information about users in itsData Use Policy.How long is the data stored for on Facebook's servers and on the individual's browser?Data associated with your Facebook account is stored for as long as that account is active. When you delete an account, it is permanently deleted from Facebook. It typically takes about one month to delete an account, but some information may remain in backup copies and logsfor up to 90 days.Can Facebook give one example of how tracking genuinely benefits the people being tracked?"We don't track people", says Facebook, adding that cookies are useful for:- Security and site integrity.- Optimising the way a Facebook page displays in your browser [by storing browser window dimensions].- Enabling a user to stay logged-in on a device they use frequently, such as a home computer.- Making it easy for users to sign in to Facebook – for example, by auto-filling the email field of the login form.- Recognising when a person is accessing Facebook from an unfamiliar device – this then enables additional security features.Further reading:The Irish Data Protection Commission Audit, December 2011IDPC Technical Analysis ReportBlog post by Nik Cubrilovicthat sparked controversy about tracking signed-out users (See also the official Facebook response in the comments)USA Today - Facebook Tracking Under Scrutiny(from November 2011)
What is Quantserve?Quantserve.com creates web beacons and cookies operated by audience research and behavioural advertising companyQuantcast.It has anumber of products:Measurement &amp; InsightThis service allows website owners and advertisers can use Quantcast web beacons in their content to see how many views they get, what age range the people viewing are likely to be in, and what income they are likely to generate (demographic data).Audience TargetingQuantcast uses the measurement and insight data help companies find people to target with their advertising. Their "Quantcast Lookalikes" service lets website owners build their own audience segments, which can be very specific. For example, a company could build a behavioural profile of the type of person that likes buying a particular product from their website. Quantcast would then identify other browsers that are similar so adverts for that product could be targeted to them.What information is Quantcast tracking?Quantcast says all its tracking is anonymous, accessing when, from where and at what time a browser loads its web beacon. "Quantcast only models anonymous records of internet usage. Quantcast does not intentionally collect any personally identifiable information – that is, information that could be used to uniquely identify or locate an individual."On its website, Quantcast says it uses statistical modelling to "build a translation of cookies to people". Part of the aim of this approach is to counteract the issue that some people who access sites on multiple devices, or delete cookies regularly, may be counted more than once.Quantcast say it does this by looking at patterns such as how often browsers are visiting the site, and how often they are likely to visit at home and work to inferhow many "real" people are accessing a website.However, it does not obtain information that relates back to specific individuals. What Quantcast does is build up a profile of a browser's behaviour across all sites using their web beacons (it claims these include over "100m web destinations, including websites, video, widgets, blogs, and advertising campaigns").Information that may be captured when browsing a site using Quantcast includes: what page the browser was on; what searches were typed into the website search; the time the browser was on the website. This information, or "log data", is then used to build a profile of different types or "segments" of browsers.In 2010, Quantcast paid $2.4m to settle a class action lawsuit alleging itused Flash cookies to reset tracking cookiesafter users deleted them. The firm stopped using Flash cookies in 2009, after research by The University of California Berkley identified the practice and it waspublicised in the media.Is the data sold to third parties?In its privacy policy, Quantcast says it may share log data and aggregated information with third parties. These include:- companies employed to support Quantcast services.- companies that provide delivery and measurement of ad campaigns.This data would be used for such things as industry analysis and targeting adverts.How much money does Quantcast make?Quantcast is a private US company so is not obliged to publish detailed breakdowns of its revenue and profit. However, the company does say it is backed by over $50m in funding from the following investors: Allen &amp; Company, Cisco Systems, Founders Fund, Polaris Venture Partners and Revolution VenturesFurther reading:Evidon factsheet on QuantcastQuantcast Privacy PolicyQuantcast Opt-Out PageQuantcast: Cookie Corrected Audience Data — White Paper(PDF)University of California Berkley research paper on Flash cookies
Read our guide below and then find out more about individual trackers on our Tracking the Trackers pages:DoubleclickQuantserveScorecard ResearchFacebookTwitterGoogleAddThisAdnxsYieldmanagerWhat are cookies?Cookies are small bits of text that are downloaded to your browser as you surf the web. Their purpose is to carry bits of useful information about your interaction with the website that sets them.Contrary to a common belief, cookies do not contain software programs, so cannot install anything on a computer.Cookies generally do not contain any information that would identify a person. Usually they contain a string of text or "unique identifier". This acts like a label. When a website sees the string of text it set in a cookie, it knows the browser is one it has seen before.If you use a different computer, open a new web browser or delete your cookies, the website will treat you as if you have arrived for the first time (and a new cookie will be set).What are cookies used for?Cookies can be used for a variety of reasons:- to help remember your preferences on a site(whether you read the oldest or newest comments first; the volume on the video player)- to understand how you and other users are using the site(to tell what the most popular news story of the day is; to record how you responded to a new design or version of the site)- for logging in to a service or to make sure you're logged in securely(these cookies may contain information such as your email address and your name – the information you gave when you signed up. The website you signed up to is the only site that can access this information.)The cookies that appear to cause the most controversy, however, are for managing the advertising you see on a website.This is particularly the case when websites set a cookie from a separate advertising delivery company. This cookie can record when and where you saw an advert, where in the world you might have been when it happened and whether you clicked on it.The cookie will send this information to the cookie owner, who records this data and uses it to make sure you don't see the same advert too many times.If websites choose to pool some of the information this type of cookie collects as part of an ad network, the systems used by advertising delivery companies can create "segments" of browsers that display similar behaviours.They will use this to try to draw conclusions about what the people behind the browsers might be interested in: "basketball lovers" or "hair product enthusiasts" or "adventure holiday takers", for example. Cookies that do this are known as third-party advertising cookies.Over time they learn which types of adverts are most effective to these groups and can sell this service to advertisers.How do I control cookies?Although much of the public concern around cookies would suggest otherwise, they can be controlled if you know how:You can set your browser to delete cookies every time you finish browsing (Find out more forFireFox,Internet Explorer,Chrome,Safari).If you don't delete cookies, you can set "opt out" cookies on your browser. Each type of tracker will usually have an opt-out.  Evidon – a company that monitors what trackers get used by websites – has aggregated many of them together on itsopt-out page.Other forms of web tracking:Cookies are the most well-known form of online tracking, but there are many other ways that companies may use to track browsing behaviour on websites. These include:Flash cookies: also known at "locally shared objects". These are pieces of information that Adobe Flash might store on your computer. This is designed to save data such as video volume preferences or, perhaps, your scores in an online game.Flash cookies have caused controversy because they can not be deleted in the same way as other cookies. This has meant that some less scrupulous companies have used them as "cookie backups", loading a traditional cookie back into your computer if you delete it. You can control what sites store information onAdobe's website.Server logs: when you load a page on a website, you are making a request to that website's server. This server will log the type of request that was made and will store information such as: IP address (which will allow website owners to infer location), the date and time the browser loaded the page, what page was loaded, and what site or page the browser was on before it came to that page (referrer).Server logs form the basis for web analytics and can only be seen by the owners of the website.Web beacons:  these are small objects embedded into a web page, but are not visible. They can also be known as "tags", "tracking bugs", "pixel trackers" or "pixel gifs".A simple version of this is a tiny clear image that is the size of a pixel. When a web page with this image loads, it will make a call to a server for the image. This "server call" allows companies to know that someone has loaded the page.This is very useful to companies that want to learn if readers are opening their the emails they send. When the web beacon loads, companies can tell who opened the email and when.This system has been abused by spammers who will identify active email accounts by sending emails that include pixel trackers. This is why many email systems will ask if you trust the sender before it displays images.Web beacons are not as useful to website owners who already have access to their server logs. However, they are useful to advertisers displaying their ads on someone else's website or services that don't have server log access. Often advertisers will embed web beacons in their adverts to get an idea of how often an advert is appearing.Useful links:Pinsent Mason's All About Cookies"How Behavioral Advertising Works" - a post on cookies from Mike Nolet the CTO of online advertising exchange AppNexusA guide to some of the most common trackers by Ghostery(part ofEvidon)The Wall Street Journal's guide to blocking trackersThe Internet Engineering Task Force's specification for cookies(Warning! Very technical)
What is Doubleclick?Doubleclick is a business owned by Google that makes it money from online advertisers and publishers. This is done by:Ad-servingOnline publishers use Doubleclick to display adverts on their websites.Ad deliveryDoubleclick will let advertisers control how often an ad is shown to a browser, how long it is shown for and how often it will appear.Behavioural targetingThis comes in two categories:Targeting for one website owner: An online publisher can set a Doubleclick cookie to tell them what sections of their sites you are browsing. Doubleclick will then judge the type of adverts you might like to see from what you're browsing. For example, if you are on a news website and you visit the sports pages, then adverts for match tickets may be more relevant than makeup. This information belongs to the website owner only.Targeting in advertising networks: Google runs a service called Adsense, in which lots of different publishers pool the information they get on browsers. This helps them build up a better idea of the type of adverts someone might want to see. This is a third-party advertising cookie.Who uses Doubleclick?Any web publishers can use Doubleclick, as long as they meet the company's terms and conditions. Google also uses Doubleclick across its own sites.What information is Doubleclick tracking?In their privacy policy, Google explains how data is recorded from a generic Doubleclick cookie. It looks like this:time: 06/Aug/2008 12:01:32ad_placement_id: 105ad_id: 1003userid: 0000000000000001client_ip: 123.45.67.89referral_url: "http://youtube.com/categories"This tells Doubleclick the time and date you saw an advert. It also shows:userid: the unique ID number the cookie has given your browserad_id: the unique ID of the advertad_placement_id: the ID of where the advert was seen on the sitereferral_url: what page you were on when you saw the advertBecause it records your IP address, Doubleclick can also make a good guess of your country and town/city, too.How is this information used?On its own, this data can tell Doubleclick how many times you have seen an ad and, for example, whether you need to see the UK or US version. It cannot find out any personal information about you.If the cookie is set on an website that is part of AdSense and then you browse another site using AdSense, the the same information will be recorded and pooled. Over time, guesses can be made about the interests of the person using that browser – whether they like football or ballet, for example, or if they visit Marks &amp; Spencers more than Tesco..If enough browsers display similar patterns, they become part of a "segment" labelled something like "football lovers", "fine food lovers", "current affairs enthusiasts", etc – these become labels that Doubleclick lets advertisers choose from when they select the types of people they want to see their ads.Once Doubleclick have an idea about the interests of the person using the browser, they will try to use them to infer how old you are and whether you are male or female (again, to put you in a segment).To check what segments Doubleclick has you in, go to Google'sad preferences manager(you don't have to be signed in to Google).Even if Doubleclick is used to serve adverts, Google says there are some websites where segments won't be created: for example, health websites (where there is a risk of building up a profile of a medical condition) and political websites (where they might build up a picture of a political affiliation).How much money does Doubleclick make?Google bought DoubleClick for $3.1bn in 2008; since then its financials are combined with other parts of Google.Google currently generates 96% of its revenue through its advertising products.In 2011, itsaw advertising revenues of $36.5bn, with $10.4bn coming from non-Google sites in its ad network.Is the data sold to third parties?Google says it is not sold to third parties. When the service is being used by a publisher for its own purposes (not in an ad network), the publisher owns that data, not Doubleclick.If data has not been sold on, has it been given to or shared free of charge with third parties?Not directly. However, the Doubleclick platform is a charged-for product and the use of segments is part of the appeal for advertisers. While they are never given information about individual browsers, they do benefit from all the data in an aggregated form.How long is the data stored for on the user's browser and on Doubleclick's servers?Doubleclick cookies on the browser are set to expire after a number of years (we have seen dates in 2014 for these). However, the override for this is clearing cookies.Newer cookies "60 days in market" and "30 days in market" are actually more valuable to advertisers as they give a better indication of what the person using that browser is interested in right now.IP addresses are anonymised after nine months and the data in cookies is anonymised after 18 months. At this point they are not used.What evidence is there that Doubleclick deletes the data?A tricky question to answer, but when it comes to the cookie on your browser, Google says if you opt out from receiving Doubleclick cookies and visit itsad preferences manager, it will recognise your opt-out status.Is the data ever matched to personally identifiable information?Never, says Google. This would be a breach of Doubleclick's terms and conditions. The information obtained from the cookies is also never combined with information that Google obtains from its other products and services. You browsing behaviour will never be linked to your Gmail account, for example.What other ways does it track?In addition to its Doubleclick cookies, Google says that if you click on an advert a cookie will be set on your browser. This is designed so that the company that advertised will know if you then, after seeing an advert,went on to buy the product.When a cookie isn't available, Google say it may use "anonymous identifiers" instead. This may happen if you access a site from a mobile, for example. One such "anonymous identifier" would be Doubleclick recognising the unique ID of your phone or tablet and assigning you an ID. Googe's privacy policy gives instructions onhow to manage this process.Do the cookies circumvent privacy-enhancing software?No special effort is put into circumnavigating tools that are designed to block cookies from working, says Google.Can Google give one example of how tracking genuinely benefits the people being tracked?The case from GoogleShort-term benefits:• Relevancy (Before cookies the web was much worse at distributing adverts that had absolutely no relevance or interest to the people browsing. It still isn't an exact science but they say it's hard to argue with the evidence that ads that use targeting are more likely to be clicked on.)• Frequency capping (Cookies can control how often a browser sees the same advert, so browsers don't get pushed the same advert continuously.)• Control (Unlike other forms of tracking, such as digital fingerprinting, cookies provide ways for savvy web users to control and block particular advertisers.)Long-term benefit: it helps pay for the content you read on the web.Further reading:Google's Privacy statement(which includes Doubleclick)Evidon factsheet on DoubleclickDetails on how to opt out of the Doubleclick cookieGoogle Advertising Opt-out browser plugin
It is, of course, an impossible task to root through the many hundreds of ZX Spectrum titles to deliver a definitive Top Five. But we've had a bash anyway. I've concentrated on titles that appeared originally on Spectrum, so no arcade conversions (goodbye R-Type) and no translations from Apple II, BBC or Vic-20 titles (so long Elite). For some reason, I also neglected Daley Thompson's Decathlon. And Chuckie Egg. And Chaos.For a more comprehensive round-up, you should head immediately to theYour Sinclair Official Top 100 Spectrum Games of All Time, which was persuasively and entertainingly written by Stuart Campbell. He put the motorbike-riding-through-forest thriller Deathchase at number one.Jet Set Willy (1984)This early flip-screen platforming adventure featured surreal locations and bizarre enemies, burning itself onto the minds of impressionable gamers who had, until this point, possibly only controlled spaceships and racing cars. Creator Matthew Smith became a bedroom coding enigma when he disappeared in the mid-eighties, spending several years in a Dutch commune before returning to the UK.Lords of Midnight (1984)This prototype role-playing game allowed players to explore a vast kingdom as they gathered armies to fight the evil witchking, Doomdark. Designer Mike Singleton managed to provide the look and feel of a 3D world by creating thousands of still images, which could be viewed from multiple perspectives.Knight Lore (1984)Created by prolific UK developer Ultimate: Play The Game, this was the first title to use the studio's filmation engine, resulting in lush isometric visuals. It was created by Tim and Chris Stamper, who would go on to found Rare – still one of the biggest development studios in the world, and most recently responsible for Kinect Sports.Tau Ceti (1985)Pete Cooke's revolutionary 3D space adventure pitted the player against a malfunctioning mainframe computer and its robot killers on the abandoned colony world of Tau Ceti III. Respected for its deep varied gameplay as well as visual innovations such as a functioning day/night cycle.Skool Daze (1985)One of the first games to actually attempt a replication of real-life experience, Skool Daze had players rampaging around a school building, scrawling on blackboards and trying to locate the combination for the headmaster's safe. Later spawning a superior sequel, Back to Skool, it was like an interactive Grange Hill – with the added bonus of letting you change all the teacher and pupil names. Rude word hilarity ensued.
Celebrated todayin a pitch-perfect Google Doodle, the 30th anniversary of the ZX Spectrum will have many veteran gamers swooning into a reverie of eighties nostalgia.Released on this day in 1982, the machine typified the British approach to industrial design – utilitarian but also idiosyncratic and characterful. It should have been buried by its more powerful contemporary, the Commodore 64, but somehow this strange little slab of plastic and rubber earned itself a considerable slice of the nascent home computing market, especially in Britain.Partly its success was about price. Since the launch of the ZX80 computer two years earlier, restless British inventor Clive Sinclair had been interested in computing for the masses.Using cheap components and a minimalistic approach to design, he was able to manufacture machines at a lower cost than rivals such as Acorn, Apple and Tandy. The computer's rubber keys, for example, were created from a single sheet, with a metal overlay to separate them – much less expensive than producing a conventional keyboard.So while the BBC Micro started at £235 for the Model A option and the C64 hit the shelves at around £350, the Spectrum launched at just £125 for the 16k version or £175 for the mighty 48k.At a time of deep recession, with unemployment at 3 million in the UK, this was a vital factor – especially as a lot of the interest in home computers was coming, not from businessmen who wanted to do spreadsheets at home, but from kids, excited by the possibility of writing and playing cool arcade games in their own living rooms."The key thing was price for us," says Ste Pickford, who together with his brother John, started out writing computer games in the earlier eighties."We spent a full year with this massive jar in the house labelled 'Spectrum savings fund'. We put every spare bit of pocket money we had into it. £175 was way more than what mum and dad would have been able to afford on a Christmas present, but we wanted it all year."We must have saved up £80, and our parents were just about able to put the rest in. So the price was everything. It was the only way a family like ours could have owned a computer."There was also a fundamental difference in philosophy – while his competitors were still producing hardware with serious computing interests in mind, Sinclair was targeting the mass market; he saw the wider consumer appeal of computers, not just as serious workhorses for home accounting, but as gadgets that could be as ubiquitous and easy to use as the TV or pocket calculator."Computers were quite scary at the time," remembers Philip Oliver, co-founder of Blitz Games Studios and one half of the Oliver twins, who created the legendary Dizzy series of games on the Spectrum."Some people were actually worried they were going to take over the world, thanks to movies likeWarGames, other people worried that computers were going to steal their jobs. What the Spectrum did was gave a friendly, fairly simple image to computing. There was nothing frightening about the Spectrum!"Ironically, there were strengths too in the technical limitations of the hardware. The Commodore 64 was more powerful and capable – its multi-chip architecture had been designed to move coloured sprites around the screen as quickly as possible – but it also did some of the work for the coders."When we started at the development studio Binary Designs we noticed that, actually, a lot of the C64 programmers weren't that good," says Pickford, now runningdigital publisher Zee-3, responsible for the Bafta award-nominated puzzler Magnetic Billiards."We realised that machines like the C64 had a lot of clever hardware; they did a lot of the hard things – like scrolling and sprites – for you. You could get most of the way to having a game running without knowing that much."The Spectrum had nothing. Architecturally, it was a really simple machine for a programmer – it was just a load of Ram and a processor; and the screen itself was just dealt with as part of the ram. You had to do everything the hard way, but it meant that if you managed to get a sprite moving around on the screen, you'd done a lot of really clever stuff."Years later, when that generation of coders grew up, Britain was really punching above its weight in the PlayStation era, when you had the start of games like Grand Theft Auto. The Spectrum bred a generation of really smart programmers."This blank slate design also meant that developers weren't steered toward creating conversions of established arcade titles – they were free to improvise. Hence, the surreal Python-esque platform puzzlers Manic Miner and Jet Set Willy, created by eccentric lone coder Matthew Smith; hence, the beautiful and challenging arcade adventure, Head over Heels, by Jon Ritman who introduced the concept of controlling two different characters.There were also bizarre experiments like Mel Croucher's Deus Ex Machina, an adventure about life emerging from a computer, which came with an audio tape featuring Ian Dury and Doctor Who star Jon Pertwee.The ZX Spectrum held its own in the format wars until the late eighties, and developers were pushing the tech to the very end.For example, the initial inability to properly colour sprites without bleeding out into surrounding space (thanks to the way the Spectrum handled colours as 8x8 pixel cells), was defeated in games like Trap Door and Dizzy through the use of thick character outlines and large sprites.But the machine didn't prosper outside of the UK, and with the arrival of 16bit behemoths like the Commodore Amiga, as well as specialist consoles like the Nintendo NES and Sega Master System, Sinclair found itself unable to compete.But for those thrilling years between 1982 and 1988, against other machines designed to push objects around screens, the Spectrum symbolised and amplified a peculiarly British approach to technology; it was about lone mavericks, doing their own thing, figuring stuff out, inventing their own conventions.Certainly, the Commodore 64 produced plenty of genius coders, artists and game musicians, but the Spectrum arguably fostered something else – something that the Raspberry Pi initiative is now attempting to re-capture – an approach to computer hardware that is more about exploiting the machine, testing the architecture, probing at the metal and silicon innards, rather than trusting to high-level languages and application-programmer interfaces.Writing for the ZX Spectrum was more about invention than design. It was a blank slate on to which a large section of the British game development industry drew itself.
Mickey Mouse has been a symbol of squeaky (sorry) clean family values since his creation in 1928 and in spite of Walt Disney's enthusiastic engagement with McCarthy era anti-communist witch hunts and persistent allegations of anti-semitism, Mickey's image has remained refulgent for more than 80 years.So it came as a bit of a surprise when the original Epic Mickey was announced as a project by Warren Spector, a man famous for System Shock – still possibly the most disturbing interactive experience yet released as a game – and Deus Ex, a title that revelled in the seamier sides of corporate corruption and body modification.You could just about imagine Warren Spector making a Batman game, but Mickey Mouse?Spector says: "A lot of people were surprised I guess. My mother said, 'It's about time.' Certainly it was a change of pace in terms of content and tone, but really it was a return to my roots. I wrote my masters thesis on cartoons, I taught animation classes, I did a game called Toon, the cartoon role-playing game, and another called The Bullwinkle and Rocky Party Role Playing Game, back in the tabletop game days, so it was a return to the things I loved."But far from distancing his more family-friendly output from the likes of Thief, he sees it as a continuation of the same set of ideas. "From a game design standpoint I see Epic Mickey and games like the new one as more of the same. They're all about choice and consequence."Epic Mickey 2 starts in the familiar confines of sorcerer Yen Sid's workshop, complete with tiny marching brooms carrying buckets of water, but even at this stage you need to make decisions. The tutorial closes with two alternatives: paint in a treasure chest or use thinner to erase it, a simple choice that sets events in motion on slightly divergent paths."Once you decide whether to paint or thin, you can never go back; there are two rewards, which one do you want?" says Spector."There's also the way the world looks – the skybox changes based on your choices, the music changes based on your choices, there are places in the game that I don't want to talk about in too much detail where you will literally get to a Y, a fork in the road, and if you go to the right, the left path will be closed to you forever."In the first game, we had choices like that and we allowed you to explore both avenues. This time we feel like we've introduced this idea to the audience now and we can push them a little further. At the end of the game all the choices that you make are going to show up in a unique end game."Warren Spector: 'It was a return to my roots'However, getting such systems in place with any degree of subtlety isn't always easy. "Publishers are always telling me, 'put a meter in there, tell players that they're making a moral choice', and I say, 'no'. It's not about moral choice, it's not about me saying this is good and this is bad, it's about you deciding what's appropriate in the moment and then seeing the consequences of that."The paradox of making a game of choice and consequence that I think is interesting, is if you do it right, people don't notice. They just play the way they want to play and have the experience they want to have."Alongside a greater sense of player agency, perhaps the biggest change in Epic Mickey 2 is its co-op gameplay, with Mickey's older brother, Oswald, now a playable character that you can either switch to manually or let another player drop in to control in split screen. While Mickey has paint and thinner, Oswald carries a remote control to zap machinery to life and create a slightly different set of interactions with his environment.Another shift is in the game's tone, which isn't quite as sinister as its predecessor was. Did the darkness of the original make Disney nervous?"There were people who were worried, let's say," says Spector. "One of the goals of the game was to make Mickey a video game hero, and hero is a big word. In order to be a hero there has to be something significant to push up against. We needed the world to be kind of dark and the problem to be significant so Mickey had a chance to prove that he was a hero, and they understood that – they understand storytelling pretty well at Disney. With the second game, we made a conscious decision to brighten things up maybe 10% or 20%."And that brightening process stretches as far as frequent musical numbers. "What we're trying to do is make a game of contrasts. For every dark thing there's a light thing, for every down there's an up, so the world has to be a world of strong contrasts. And there's great humour in contrast. A dark world or a villain singing a song to express his emotions – it's fun, it's revealing, it's very Disney – and so it seems kind of appropriate."In Epic Mickey 2's case, music appears to be confined to cut scenes, which you'll be able to skip (although on early evidence, you'd need a heart of stone to do so) but Spector would like to go further with music and games. "One day I'm going to make a game where songs are part of the game system – I've got a lot of ideas about how to do that."For now he's interested in pursuing the themes of choice and consequence. "It's a different tone, but absolutely with the same idea in mind, that what you're doing really matters and there's nothing that says the only worthy consequence is death or failure. Different kinds of choices have different kinds of consequences and that's all it is."With just three levels playable – the tutorial, the OsTown hub area and a 2D platform-style knockabout – there's only so much cause and effect visible at this stage. Mickey is very much able to change the look and functionality of OsTown by painting in buildings and erasing other ones – which, as in the last game, makes an immediate and palpable difference to your surroundings.Epic Mickey 2 is due for release this autumn and promises to be rather more thoughtful than most games featuring licensed characters.
For 10 years, City Interactive based its business around budget video games. While its Polish neighbour CD Projekt, developer of The Witcher, chose to compete with the triple-A blockbuster RPGs of America and Japan, this family-run developer and publisher was content with bargain bucket clones.Then, in 2010, the company quietly releasedSniper: Ghost Warrior, a first-person shooter that draws heavy influence from the sniping missions in Infinity Ward's Modern Warfare titles. Sniper expanded these memorable sneaking sections out into a full game, discarding the run-and-gun set-pieces that define Activision's blockbuster in order to exclusively focus on the art of thelong-range headshot.As expectations for the product were low, City Interactive opted to publish the game itself around the world, a decision that would drastically change the company's fortunes. "To be frank we never expected Sniper to be half the success it was," explains City Interactive's Lukasz Mach. "We knew that sniping is an attractive niche to many players and so we figured that there was possibly the opportunity to gain some market share in a genre that is highly competitive and overcrowded. When we demoed the game we found that it appealed to players who are not particularly skilled in run-and-gun close-combat games. Here was an experience in which players could take their time, line up shots, hold their breath and make the kill. That seems to appeal to a broader range of people than anyone here could have expected."Indeed, contrary to City Interactive's low expectations for the game, it became a sleeper hit, selling 2.5m copies in the 12 months following its release. For a small Polish publisher who had dared to distribute the game around the world single-handedly, the rewards were unprecedented, generating profits in excess of $25m and instigating work on the sequel, which is today nearing completion."The earnings from Sniper were huge," says Mach. "The success of Sniper changed not only our mindset in creating the sequel but also the entire business model around which the company is based. In the past we had this problem with being perceived as a cheap game company. And in fairness, we were making cheap games. But after the success of the first Sniper we have shifted direction to triple-A titles. It's been a dramatic change."The company began the transformation by doubling in size in just a few short months, opening new studios in both Romania and Britain. The latter is headed up by the ebullient Scotsman Stuart Black, best known for his work on EA's well-respected Xbox first-person shooterBlack, who left Codemasters in a storm of controversy midway through the development ofBodycount."That was the big thing for me," explains Black, who is currently working on a second world war shooter for City Interactive calledEnemy Front. "After I was through with Codemasters and hunting around for a new project I spoke to various people around the world and had a number of potential options. Then the call came in from City Interactive. I decided to take the meeting because: why not? I was very taken by their attitude. It was just after Sniper came out and the game was doing very well. But they were extremely self-critical. They were very honest about what the problems were with the game, highlighting what they should and shouldn't have done with the development of the game."For Black, this sense of self-awareness, and desire to improve was beguiling. "I've worked in most of the big game companies in the UK and it's amazing how delusional and complacent many of the major developers can be when it comes to their work," he explains."I'm not like that. I am always very self-critical. I always want to do better. And I found that attitude very syncopated with their attitudes. Their ambitions for the future were very beguiling and the fact that they want to make a second world war  shooter was exactly what I was after."For Mach, the acquisition of Black was a key part of the new strategy for the publisher. "We were very excited because we knew of his games, of course," he says. "Having him on the team was a big step towards quality improvement." Nevertheless, the success of Sniper has had an impact beyond attracting talent from within the games industry. "The sheer size of profits involved from Sniper caught the attention of stock investors in Poland," explains Mach."Combine this with the success seen by CD Projekt's Witcher titles and the games industry has become the big area for investors in Poland right now. City Interactive has a huge amount of interest in this area."At the publisher's showcase in Warsaw, where we have the opportunity to play Sniper 2 and Stuart Black's game, the audience is equal parts journalist and investor. But even though the company is still on the lookout for investors to continue to expand, now the focus is on delivering more games to match the success of Sniper."2011 was a year of expanding our company internally," says Mach. "We didn't have too many titles last year and it was all about reinvesting the profits, opening new studios, hiring new executive producers. The huge challenge in that time has been managing process, implementing the kind of processes required for developing many more titles concurrently."With seven development studios, City Interactive is generating a lot of content behind closed doors, including downloadable Unreal 3-based shooterAlien Fear; Combat Wings, a second world war dogfighting game; an un-named RPG project involving staff who worked on The Witcher and, of course, Sniper 2. It's this last title that City Interactive is banking on becoming its greatest success. Built onCryEngine 2, the game features real-world ballistics, requiring players to gauge wind speed and direction before taking a shot. It features limb dismemberment from large calibre guns, while, if you manage to target a grenade on a distant enemy's belt you can cause an explosion to impact the surrounding area. It's undeniably a tightly scripted corridor shooter, but the upgrade in visuals and atmosphere from the first game is obvious from first touch.The next 18 months will be crucial in revealing whether City Interactive can turn a flash in the pan success story into a successful new business model.Mach is aware of the dangers. "Right now we are trying to be realistic," he says. "We have many projects on the go which is hugely exciting but also very risky. The key for us now is to ensure is game is released in the best possible shape it can be. It's the only way that this gamble will pay off."
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 21 April 2012PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)The Witcher 2: Assassins - Enhanced Edition (18+)Xbox 360 (98)PC (2)12 (1)Fifa Street(3+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (44)63 (3)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (46)PS3 (37)Wii (6)PSP (3)304 (4)Kinect Star Wars(12+)Xbox 360 (100)35 (2)Mass Effect 3(15+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (28)PC (8)76 (5)Tiger Woods PGA Tour 13(3+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (40)47 (8)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (31)PC (9)268 (7)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (23)PC (20)249 (9)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (64)3DS (35)2110 (6)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (48)PS3 (43)PC (5)Wii (3)2411 (10)SSX (3+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (46)812 (11)Saints Row: The Third(18+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (40)PC (2)2213 (12)Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure(7+)Wii (51)Xbox 360 (28)PS3 (14)3DS (6)1614 (17)Batman: Arkham City(15+)Xbox 360 (45)PS3 (48)PC (4)1615 (15)Moshi Monsters: Moshling Zoo (3+)DS (100)816 (14)Resident Evil: Operation Raccoon City(15+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (46)417 (16)Just Dance 3(3+)Wii (61)Xbox 360 (24)PS3 (15)2618 (–)The Sims 3(12+)PC (57)Xbox 360 (20)Wii (8)3DS (7)4719 (13)Assassin's Creed: Revelations(15+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (39)PC (2)2220 (–)Forza Motorsport 4(3+)Xbox 360 (100)16UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamChumby no more: employees at Technicolor, technology waiting to be sold &gt;&gt; The VergeThe Chumby widget platform has gone through a number of permutations over the years, but it appears the ride is over for now: we just confirmed with former CEO Derrick Oien that Chumby as a company is no more. Derrick says Chumby was working hard to transition its platform onto a smart TV platform over the past few years and had even struck deals with LG and Best Buy, but investors grew weary and started looking to sell last fall. A suitor for the core Chumby assets still hasn't been found, but Technicolor now employs most of Chumby's people on its own smart TV project.Anyone (still) got a Chumby?No Bandwidth - No Cloud! &gt;&gt; Peter CochraneObvious, but the stats are blunt:Today over 36% of the UK population work from home or on the move. The SME and self-employed sector generate nearly 20% of the GDP. Their laptops, tablets and smartphones are more powerful that the first Cray Super Computer in 1976. And next year they will be even more powerful, whilst their need to connect and get into The Cloud will also be even greater.Oracle's PDF summary to jury of first week's evidence &gt;&gt; OracleThere's no commentary, but if you've been following the trial it's pretty clear what Oracle's lawyers are saying here. If anyone knows if Google has put up a similar summary, please give us a link.Why Facebook needs to build a browser &gt;&gt; CNET NewsBen Parr:In a single update, Google could turn Chrome into its own version of Rockmelt -- it would be a social browser that puts Google+ in front of users before they even have a chance to type Facebook.com in the address bar.Don't think Google will do it? It's already startedreleasing extensionsthat integrate Google+ into Chrome. I suspect that these extensions are just precursors to their eventual integration into Chrome.Facebook may be king of the Web right now, but the browser is still the gateway users must pass through to access the Web. Facebook can't allow Google to control how 30.9 percent of its users access its Web site, especially as its ally (and investor) Microsoft continues to falter in the browser wars.Facebook could try to counter Chrome with Facebook integration in IE, but it wouldn't be the game-changing move Facebook needs to put Google on the defensive. The only way Facebook can knock Google off its feet is to build its own browser and use its massive reach to promote it.ASUS Transformer Prime GPS Extension Kit hands-on &gt;&gt; EngadgetOK, so the Transformer Prime had some trouble with the built-in GPS. It didn't work. Now there's a free dongle. Wonder how much profit that's wiped out.Nick Denton wants to turn the online media world on its head -- Tech News and AnalysisIt's about remaking comments:So what is Gawker's solution? The new commenting system, which Denton has hinted about but not revealed the details of, is designed to give everyone their own platform for commentary and discussion, one in which they control who they listen to or who they dismiss. And that includes the sources involved in a story at Gawker or Gizmodo or any of the other sites. That, Denton hopes, will appeal to people who don't currently comment on blogs because doing so feels like "asking someone to go down to Occupy Wall Street and plunge into the mob and start shouting. No reasonable person is going to do that."Yet to be unveiled.Oracle v Google round-up: The show so far &gt;&gt; The RegisterAndrew Orlowski gives a good roundup of the first week.Spring-cleaning ... in spring! &gt;&gt; Official Google BlogWe have so many opportunities in front of us that without hard choices we risk doing too much and not having the impact we strive for. Here are the details on the changes we'll be making:We are making a number of API changes, adopting a one-year deprecation policy for certain APIs and removing the deprecation policy for others. Additionally, we are retiring some old APIs with limited usage. We have also updated the deprecation policy for all APIs to be much clearer and more concise. Please see theDevelopers Blogfor more information.Out on their digital ears: Google Flu Vaccine Finder (flu scare's over), Google Related, Google Sync for BlackBerry (other solutions exist), mobile web app for Google Talk, One Pass (payment platform for publishers), Patent Search homepage (now on google.com), Linux version of Picasa (dead), Picasa Web Albums upload for Mac and iPhoto (use newer version of Picasa for Mac). The two biggest kills look like the Google Talk (if you're not on Android) and One Pass - another publisher plan that hasn't worked, along with Fast Flip and others.Q&amp;A: the researchers who analyzed all the porn on the internet &gt;&gt; TIME.comFrom June 2011, but we just rediscovered it:Searching all the porn on the Internet might not seem like the most scientifically productive activity, but computational neuroscientists Ogi Ogas and Sai Gaddam did it anyway.They discovered they could roughly classify all - well, most - of the porn (accessed via searches) online. You are either just about to feel like one of a large crowd, or rather unusual. We won't spoil it for you.The tweetbomb and the ethics of attention &gt;&gt; Ethan ZuckermanXeni Jardin was the target of a "Twitterbombing" attempt to get her attention; when she rejected it, a significant number turned nasty too and were simply hateful in response. Zuckerman notes:Twitterbombing is a tactic that forces us to think aboutthe ethics of attention. We may believe that Reese and Athene are engaged in a deeply important cause - does that mean we're ethically justified in asking someone else to pay attention? What's the difference between asking a friend for their attention, and someone you don't know? A public figure versus a media curator, versus someone who simply has a lot of Twitter followers?The risk is that it turns those who have many followers away, and into broadcast-only mode. Ring someone's doorbell once and they'll answer the door. Ring it a thousand times, and they'll disconnect the doorbell.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
A selection of 19 new apps for you today:Coca-Cola Olympic Games My Beat MakerYou may have noticed that Mark Ronson has created an Olympic Games song for Coca-Cola using the sounds of athletes. Now there's an app to help sports and/or music fans do the same, with the twist that you manipulate the samples and beats by moving your smartphone. The link above is for iPhone buthere's the Android version.Android / iPhoneSkypeIt's been in beta for a little white, but Skype for Windows Phone has hit 1.0 status, offering video-calling, VoIP, and now support for 18 languages too. With Skype now owned by Microsoft, the app's release may come ahead of deeper integration with the Windows Phone OS in the future.Windows Phone100 Greatest Hits23 April is apparently the 30th anniversary of the release of the Sinclair ZX Spectrum computer. To celebrate, Elite Systems has gathered together 100 of its officially-emulated games, taking in Bruce Lee, Manic Miner, Jet Set Willy, Barbarian, Skool Daze and many more in one £5.99 download.iPhone / iPadStickman Skater ProDeveloper Turbo Chilli says its Stickman Skater game has more than 17m players on iOS. Now it's on Android too, as your stickman flips, jumps and ollies his way through a succession of levels.AndroidRCO meets FinkThe Dutch Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra is collaborating with dance artist Fink on a concert on 29 April, with this app launching to livestream the event, and then follow up with interviews and behind-the-scenes videos after it.iPadNewsifyThe latest skeuomorphic RSS reader app that looks like a print publication is Newsify, which turns Google Reader feeds into an on-screen newspaper, complete with offline reading and the ability to share articles to various social services.iPhoneMimi Good &amp; Bibi BadHere's a clever spin on book-apps (literally, ho ho). The idea: a story where rotating your iPad gives a different character's point of view. In this case, the story focuses on two English children at an American school, with interactivity and voice narration from actress Morwenna Banks (or, as your children will quite possibly point out, Mummy Pig in Peppa Pig).iPadMatthew Kenney's Raw ExpressA cookery app where no cooking is required? That would be this: a collection of more than 40 raw-food recipes from expert Matthew Kenney, including 12 videos showing his tips on everything from knife skills to cracking a coconut.iPadRage of BahamutDigital trading-card game Rage of Bahamut has more than 1m players in Japan, apparently. Now it's available in the West for Android handsets, courtesy of connected gaming service Mobage. Expect all manner of monsters, and in-app purchases as the mechanism to building a strong deck.AndroidTalkTablet UKTalkTablet UK is the latest augmentative and alternative communication (AAC) app for iPad, aimed at people with autism, Down Syndrome or conditions affecting their ability to communicate.iPadSeed2 – Vortex of WarCritically-acclaimed RPG Seed gets a sequel, packed with quests, battles and more than 160 monsters to waylay.AndroidWhy? Why? Why? - AeroplanesStruggling to find answers for a curious child in an airport? This book-app from Ravensburger is your friend. Nine chapters answer plenty of plane questions, accompanied by illustrations from the existing print book.iPhoneFlight+ for iPadMore planes here, but for adults. "Track all available flights worldwide in real-time, and display them in one intuitive interface," promises its App Store listing. It makes good use of push notifications and maps to keep you on the ball, whether it's friends and family travelling, or pure curiosity.iPadPuma SocialSportswear brand Puma has a new social photos app that prompts you to turn pics of friends into pseudo-cards emblazoned with slogans like "The Unexpected Pro", "The Early Exiter" and "The Thinker" to celebrate nights out.iPhoneGo, Clifford, Go!Windows Phone is starting to get some of the book-apps that have been appealing to parents on iOS and Android. This one stars Clifford the Big Red Dog, with voice narration, phonics and a mini-game relating to its story.Windows PhoneMashupMashup is the latest DJ mixer for iOS that's aimed at professionals and amateurs alike. Two virtual decks and a mixer, an "advanced scratch engine" technology from audio firm Waves should make it a musical treat.iPhone / iPadLemur_HDAmegami's polished-looking iPad game sees you controlling a cat (no, not a Lemur, that's just his name) collecting candles and sweets across 54 levels, while smashing the scenery to bits.iPadSnakes and Ladders for iPiecesThis is the latest game in Jumbo's iPieces range – titles for the iPad designed to be played with physical accessories. In this case, those are snakes and ladders counters.iPadTennisdataTennis buffs who want to augment their memories should check out this app, which provides data on all men's singles matches on the ATP tour and Davis Cup world group since 1998 – handy if you're planning to provide your own commentary when visiting Wimbledon this year.iPhone
Well, it's Monday again. Assuming you weren't running the London marathon, did you get much gaming done this weekend?
Google's latest 'doodle' celebrates St George's Day and the 30th anniversary of the release of the seminal ZX Spectrum - the small, black, British-produced computer with rubber keys that played a seminal role in igniting the age of the home computer.Produced by Sinclair Research Ltd, it was the third home computer to be released by the company, following the ZX80 and ZX81 - but was the first to be aimed primarily at the home.The 'doodle' features St George on a horse, taking on a dragon. It is based on the ZX's 8-bit style graphics familiar to a generation of computer users, particularly in the UK, for whom it was often their first experience of computing.It came in two models - £125 for a 16KB machine and £175 for a 48KB machine - and went up against the BBC Micro, which had been released a year before but had a starting price of £235.More technologically advanced rivals emerged, particularly the Commodore 64 and the Amstrad CPC range, but the Spectrum still managed to build a following and become the focus for more than 23,000 software titles which were released for it.Two more models were released during the early and mid 1980s before Amstrad bought the Spectrum range.Despite being officially discontinued in 1992, it retains iconic status as well as a loyal following, while there are programs for PCs, Macs and mobile devices which can allow users to play digital versions of Spectrum games.Websites devoted to the ZX includeWorld of Spectrum, which credits the computer with "single-handedly launching the home computer market in the UK and catching the imagination of the public - right from 5 year olds to middle aged housewives".The site adds: "Today, it lives on in the hearts and minds of hundreds (if not thousands) of nostalgic Spectrum users around the world; Specchums (as spectrum users like to refer to themselves) have taken it upon themselves to keep the memories and nostalgia of the Speccy (as the Spectrum is affectionately known) years alive."
This month, the US chain Walmart bought the startup Social Calendar, one of the most popular calendar apps on Facebook, which lets users record special events, birthdays and anniversaries. More than 15 million registered users have posted over 110m personal notifications, and users receive email reminders totalling over 10m a month.Of course, when a Social Calendar user listed a friend's birthday or details of a holiday to Malaga, she or he probably had no idea the information would end up in the hands of a US supermarket. But now it will be cross-referenced with Walmart's own data, plus any other databases that are available, to generate a compelling profile of individual Social Calendar users and their non-Social Calendar-using friends.The second decade of the 21st century is epitomised by Big Data. From the status updates, friendship connections and preferences generated by Facebook and Twitter to search strings on Google, locations on mobile phones and purchasing history on store cards, this is data that's too big to compute easily, yet is so rich that it is being used by institutions in the public and private sectors to identify what people want before they are even aware they want it.The most important thing for data holders in the Big Data age is the kind of information they have access to. Facebook's projected $100bn value is based on the data it offers people who want to exploit its social graph. Its holdings include more than 800m records about who's in a user's social circle, relationship information, likes, dislikes, public and private messages and even physiological characteristics.Google's recent privacy policy change has integrated the various accounts an individual maintains, creating a single profile that includes intentions from its search engine and the connections identified from its social network Google+; preferences and interests from mail, documents or YouTube; and location from its maps and mobile phone operating system.Aggregated, this data can prove powerful. "Given enough data, intelligence and power, corporations and government can connect dots in ways that only previously existed in science fiction," said Alexander Howard, government 2.0 correspondent at the technology publisherO'Reilly Media.In a trend that is remarkably similar to the plotline ofPhilip K Dick's Minority Report, Big Data is being used to predict social unrest or criminal intent. For example, Pax, an experimental system developed by the documentary maker and historian Brian Lapping, predicts the conditions for uprisings using aggregated search terms in different regions of the world. The analysed intelligence is then sold to governments, which can act accordingly.The systems used to parse, synthesise, assimilate and make sense of the information are starting to make sophisticated connections and learn patterns. Big Data proponents view this as an opportunity to observe behaviours in real time, draw real-time conclusions and affect real-time change. Yet their conclusions can trip into areas that require human sensibilities to truly understand their implications.In one recent high-profile example, aMinneapolis man discovered his teenage daughter was pregnantbecause coupons for baby food and clothing were arriving at his address from the US superstore Target. The girl, who had not registered her pregnancy with the chain, had been identified by a system that looked for pregnancy patterns in her purchase behaviour. "Data can say quite a lot," said Howard. "Though one has to be very careful to verify quality and balance it with human expertise and intuition."In an infamous case in 2006,anonymised search terms released  into the public domain by AOLwere quickly de-anonymised, identifying individual searchers. And last month, police in New Yorkused a photo from Facebookin combination with their own photo files and facial recognition software to arrest a man for attempted murder."People give out their data often without thinking about it," said the European commission vice-president Viviane Reding. "They have no idea that it will be sold to third parties." So users continue to populate databases such as Social Calendar with increasingly valuable personal information that, as commercial property, can be transferred to a new company with a different privacy ethos.Privacy is not about control over personal data, according to the web theorist Danah Boyd, but the control individuals think they have. "People seek privacy so that they can make themselves vulnerable in order to gain something: personal support, knowledge, friendship," she said at the WWW conference in 2010. Increasingly, people are gaining services that deliver value, relevance and connection – as Google and Facebook do – in exchange for their personal information.Expectations of privacy are being renegotiated. "When I grew up in Greensborough, Alabama, the population was 1,200," said Jim Adler, chief privacy officer and general manager of data systems at the information commerce firm Intelius. "If you cut school, everyone knew it by dinner. The expectation of privacy was low."Now, the expectation of privacy that we've had before Big Data, and our parents had, has been pulled away."To some degree, this is happening because web users and web developers may not share a universal sense of what is and what is not private. As Boyd put it, privacy is contextual. An individual may be willing to share what they had for breakfast on Twitter, divulge where they are via FourSquare or record every keystroke made on their computers since 1998, but they wouldn't want information about their health or their children's whereabouts made public.It becomes even more complicated when the users of software systems and architectures are a global population but the privacy expectations have been put in place by primarily US services. "Our expectations of privacy in the US versus Europe are very different," said Adler. "We are currently negotiating which is more important: the rights of the individual or the rights of knowledge."In the EU, Reding has campaigned for the "right to be forgotten", already part of the 1995 data protection directive, which establishes by law that private data is the property of the individual and must be deleted from a system on request at any time. "More and more people feel uncomfortable about being traced everywhere, about a brave new world," she said. Information held by public bodies, however, remains exempt.Reding's motivation is primarily to maintain a business ecosystem friendly for foreign investment. "This isn't about the reputation of the individual," she explained. "It's about the reputation of the companies. Data is their currency."What we're aiming for is privacy by design," she said. Companies should initiate a hallmark system that informs users that the privacy policy adheres to the guidelines. This, she argued, would ensure that people continue to share their data.Sceptics like Adler argue that the right to be forgotten is flawed because it ignores how social boundaries are currently being negotiated in the Big Data world. "The ability to delete personal information means that you lose the potential for lessons learned," he said. "If you can step away and erase something someone says that is stupid or hurtful, you lose an element of accountability."Yet if, as Reding maintains, 80% of British citizens are already concerned that data held by companies will be used for purposes other than the reason it was collected, there may be a shift in how much information people are willing to share.The weakest link is the technology itself. The Target pregnancy case demonstrates that machines can pick up patterns in ways that may have unexpected consequences for individuals. The people who design the systems that collect and analyse the data are now responsible for thinking about data privacy and projecting future outcomes, and may – because they're human – get it wrong."These technologies are as neutral as guns," said Adler. "The Big Data guys who want to send you coupons when you're pregnant – because they're nerdy and technologists – probably don't realise that pregnancy is a sensitive issue." And sensitivities shift throughout an individual's lifespan and, more broadly, social norms shift over time.Fundamentally, privacy means the same thing in an era of Big Data as it always has, but the capacity of machines to capture, store, process, synthesise and analyse details about everyone has forced new boundaries. It is unlikely that people will stop sharing data in exchange for services that are viewed as valuable.Big Data offers undeniable opportunities, but requires a delicate balance between the right to knowledge and the right of the individual. Privacy norms will demand that new systems of trust be built into technology design.
To briefly state the obvious, the internet giants are seriously big: Google is not only the world's largest search engine, it's one of the top three email providers, a social network, and owner of the Blogger platform and the world's largest video site, YouTube. Facebook has the social contacts, messages, wallposts and photos of more than 750 million people.Given that such information could be used to sell us stuff, accessed by government or law enforcement bodies (perhaps without warrants, under legal changes), or – theoretically, at least – picked up by hackers or others, it's not unreasonable to wonder exactly how much the internet giants know about us.US users of the sites are out of luck: there's no legal right under US law to ask a company to hand over all the information it holds on you. Users do have some say in how much companies are allowed to take, usually contained in the terms of service. But EU citizens are in a better position – under Europe-wide data protection rules, anyone can send a written request for their full data and, for a small fee, the company has to ship it out, usually within 40 days.It's a great chance to see exactly how much Google and Facebook really know about us, and all we need is a test subject. Perhaps an EU citizen who's been on Facebook since it came to the UK in 2005; who's had a YouTube account almost as long; and was on Gmail back when invitations to the service were something to beg, borrow and steal, rather than a nuisance. They'd also have to be enough of an idiot to write about what they dig up in public. This left one obvious, unlucky test case in the Guardian offices: me.Things didn't get off to a great start with Google. The company has a main US branch, Google Inc, and subsidiaries within other countries. In the UK, that's Google UK Ltd. Here's the catch: Google UK Ltd, which is subject to the EU rules that let you access your data, doesn't hold it. As Google says in a statement: "Please note that Google UK Ltd does not process any personal data in relation to Google services, which are provided by Google Inc, a US-incorporated company whose address you can find in the Google privacy policy."While we can find Google Inc's address, that doesn't necessarily help: a spokeswoman for the UK regulator, the ICO, confirmed that EU laws on subject access requests do not extend to the US parent company. This means there's no real chance of getting hold of user data from Google through this route.Thankfully, Google isn't totally unhelpful. It has two tools that help show the information it holds on you, which a helpful staffer walked me through. The first, Google Dashboard, has run for about three years and gathers information from almost all of Google's services in one place. Another feature, the "account activity report", has launched recently, and shows Google's information on my logins in the past month, including countries, browsers, platforms and how much I've used the services.Running these tools on my work email account (the Guardian's emails are managed by Google) is disconcerting, but not too much so. The dashboard can see I'm a member of a few internal Google groups, and have a blogger account used to collaborate with some researchers on Twitter riot data.Data showing my work gmail account has 877 contacts – and listing them – gives me some pause for thought, as does a list of the 398 Google docs I've opened. The site also lists my most recent sent and received emails (in both cases a "no subject" conversation thread with a colleague).A little more disconcerting is a chat history logging 500 conversations with 177 colleagues. Google chat is a handy way to collaborate in a large building, especially one full of journalists who seem to prefer to talk online (as Twitter activity testifies) rather than in the flesh. But there's more than a little gossip going on too. I make a mental note to check how to delete those logs.The big relief comes when I note Google isn't tracking the internet searches I've made on my work account, which for journalists the world over tends towards the incredibly odd.Repeating this exercise for my personal Google account is less relaxing. There are several bits of extra info here. The most innocuous is a heavily neglected Google+ profile with a few hundred connections but almost no posts.Slightly more embarrassing is a seemingly connected YouTube account, apparently set up at a time when I thought using character names from role-playing games was a good account-naming policy. It has only one surviving video – a student interview withHeather Brooke– but does link to my viewing history, which includes the Tottenham riots, Dire Straits, Pomplamoose and, bafflingly, aQ&amp;A from the Ryan commissioninto child abuse in Ireland.Worst of all is a lengthy list of my search results. Looking through anyone's list of searches gives a distressing degree of insight into odder parts of their personality. Google helpfully lists my most recent searches across its different services on one page. For web search: "paul daniels wiki". For images: "harry styles" (explainer: I was trying to see who he was, after my 15-year-old niece mentioned him).News was "youtube user figures", showing I am meticulous in my research, while even my maps search history is present – last result "Portland House, SW1". Mortifyingly, my last blogs search was a vanity one: "james ball". Google also holds information on my login IPs, and other anonymised non-logged-in data, but doesn't (yet) make this available.There was some relief from the gloom though. Google insists the tracking for its display adverts – it is the market leader in online advertising – doesn't draw from user data, but comes instead fromcookies, files that anonymously monitor the sites you visit. Google's ad preference page believes I am interested in online video, TV reality shows, printers, Egypt, politics and England. From this, it has concluded I am likely to be over 65 and male. I find myself more reassured than offended that Google has got this more or less wrong.Facebook is a much trickier prospect. Unlike Google, Facebook actually processes some data in the EU, through its Irish branch, making it subject to access laws. These are currently taking a long time – apparently up to three months – due to a large volume of requests from campaigners, so I once again resorted to the site's own tools.Facebook's main download tool was familiar, if slightly embarrassing. A downloaded archive that opens into something looking oddly like a stripped-down, uncluttered Facebook, this lists all my friends, every post ever made on my wall, by myself or others (some dating back almost seven years are not comfortable viewing), my private messages and the small number (fewer than 10) of photos I've uploaded to the site myself.The Facebook extended archive is a little creepier, including "poke info", each instance of tracking cookies they possess, previous names, and full login and logout info. Every event to which I've ever been invited is neatly listed, alongside its location, time, and whether I said I would attend .One piece of information – a supposed engagement to a schoolfriend, Amy Holmes – stands out. A Facebook "joke" that seemed faintly funny for about a week several years ago was undone by hiding it from any and all Facebook users, friends or otherwise (to avoid an "… is now single!" status update). The forgotten relationship helpfully explains why Facebook has served me up with badly targeted bridalwear adverts for several years, and reassures me that Facebook doesn't know quite everything.Or does it? There are gaping holes in what Facebook has made available to me. No posts from other users in which I'm mentioned are included, not even from my friends. None of the 300+ photographs in which I feature, uploaded by friends and family, are there. On the upside, this means I escape yet another viewing of the naked baby photos my ruthless older sister decided to share with the world. On the downside, it reminds me that huge swaths of my information on these networks are outside my control.Campaigners estimate that only around 29% of the information Facebook possesses on any given user is accessible through the site's tools.The tour through a decent swath of my personal data is at once disturbing and comforting. Disturbing because it reminds me mine is a life lived online. Among the huge tranche of information available to Google and Facebook alone is virtually everyone I know, a huge amount of what I've said to (and about) them, and a vast amount of data on where I've been. Such detailed tracking would have been an impossibility even 10 years ago, and we're largely clueless as to its effects.This is the core of the main comfort: despite their mountain of data, Google and Facebook seem largely clueless, too – they've had no more luck making any sense out of it than I have. And that, for now, is a relief.• See ourstep-by-step guide to downloading your user data
Google has replaced its logo with a time-lapse animation of blooming flowers to mark Earth Day, a worldwide series of events held annually to raise ecological awareness.The latest in the search engine's so-called doodles sees purple, red and yellow flowers sprout from a series of shrubs laid out to spell Google.Earth Day was first held on 1970 after Gaylord Nelson, a US senator, conceived it as a tool to promote an environmental agenda after witnessing a huge oil spill off the coast of California a year earlier.Organisers claim the 1970 event rallied millions across the country as it tapped in to the rise of hippie culture and anti-Vietnam war protest movements. "Groups that had been fighting against oil spills, polluting factories and power plants, raw sewage, toxic dumps, pesticides, freeways, the loss of wilderness, and the extinction of wildlife suddenly realised they shared common values," the officialEarth Day websitesays.Major Earth Day events have been held in subsequent years, always on 22 April – the same date as the original event. In 1990 the event went global for the first time with activities involving an estimated 200 million people in 141 countries. The day's 30th anniversary in 2000 was used to promote a global call for cleaner energy while 2010 saw the launch an initiative to plant 1m trees.This year's Earth Day is centred around a scheme called "one billion acts of green", which encourages individuals to make simple environmentally conscious pledges, such as switching off lightbulbs or reducing car journeys. Organisers say the day is now observed in 192 countries.
As one of the characters in George Bernard Shaw's playThe Doctor's Dilemmaobserves: "All professions are conspiracies against the laity." To update the observation for a contemporary audience, simply replace the term "professions" with "publishers of academic journals" and you've got it in one. For, without the knowledge of the  general public, a racket of monumental proportions has been milking the taxpayer for decades.It works like this. If you're a researcher in any academic discipline, your reputation and career prospects are largely determined by your publications in journals of mind-bending specialisation – likeTetrahedron, a journal specialising in organic chemistry and published by the Dutch company Elsevier.Everything that appears in such journals is peer-reviewed – that is to say, vetted by at least two experts in the field. This is the main quality-assurance mechanism used in scientific research, and it's what sets scholarly publication apart from most other forms of publishing.Different journals have different levels of prestige. Their status is measured by their "impact factor", a citation-based measure of the perceived importance of a journal in its field.Tetrahedron'sIF, for example, is currently 3.011. In any major scientific field, success depends on getting your articles published in such high-impact journals.And not just personal success, either: under the research funding arrangements now in place in the UK and elsewhere, the survival of entire university departments depends on the publication records of their leading academics. So academia has become a publish-or-perish world.This gives enormous power to outfits like Elsevier that publish key journals. And guess what? They wield that power. An annualsubscription toTetrahedron, for example, costs a university library $20,269 (£12,600). And if you wantBiochimica et Biophysica Acta, that'll set the library back €18,710 (£11,600) a year. Not all journals are this pricey, but the average cost of an annual subscription to a chemistry journal is still $3,792 andmany journals cost far more. The result is that unconscionable amounts of public money are extracted from our hapless universities in the form of what are, effectively, monopoly rents for a few publishers. Most major British universities are giving between £4m and £6m a year to outfits like Elsevier, and the bill has been rising faster than the rate of inflation over the years.But it's not just the exorbitant subscriptions that stink; it's the intrinsic absurdity of what's involved in the academic publishing racket. Most publishers, after all, have at least to pay for the content they publish. But not Elsevier, Springeret al. Their content is provided free by researchers, most of whose salaries are paid by you and me.The peer reviewing that ensures quality in these publications is likewise provided gratis by you and me, because the researchers who do it are paid from public money. (One estimateputs the value of UK unpaid peer reviewing at a staggering £165m.) And then the publishers not only assert copyright claims on the content they have acquired for nothing, but charge publicly funded universities monopoly prices to get access to it.The most astonishing thing about this is not so much that it goes on, but that people have put up with it for so long. Talk to university librarians about extortionist journal subscriptions and mostly all you will get is a pained shrug. The librarians know it's a racket, but they feel powerless to act because if they refused to pay the monopoly rents then their academics – who, after all, are under the cosh of publish-or-perish mandates – would react furiously (and vituperatively).Which is why the recent initiative by a Cambridge academic, Tim Gowers, is so interesting and important. Professor Gowers is a recipient of the Fields medal, which is the mathematics equivalent of a Nobel prize, so they don't come more eminent than him. In a memorableblogpost,Gowers announced that henceforth he would not be submitting articles to Elsevier's journals and that he would also be refusing to peer-review articles for them. His post struck a nerve, attracting thousands of readers and commenters and stimulating one of them to set up a campaigning website,The Cost of Knowledge, which enables academics to register their objections to Elsevier. To date, more than 9,000 have done so.This is the beginning of something new. The worm has finally begun to turn. TheWellcome Trust and other funding bodiesare beginning to demand that research funded by them must be published outside paywalls.  Some things are simply too outrageous to be tolerated. The academic publishing racket is one. And when it's finally eliminated, Professor Gowers should get not just a knighthood, but the Order of Merit.
The Witcher 2debuted on PC last year, but this enhanced edition has been worth the wait, offering a wealth of improvements. Luckily, an early tutorial is one of them, as the fighting and alchemy system of the game can be dauntingly complex to attempt unprepared. Once understood, the game reveals itself as an RPG of the highest calibre, presenting a true maturity beyond its titillating nudity or bloodthirsty violence. A complex web of choices demands more than black-and-white morality and I frequently found myself pondering the best course of action – an unusually deep emotional investment in a fictional world.A competitive Arena mode is the single largest addition to be found, but returning players will notice tweaks and upgrades throughout. Meanwhile, newcomers willing to learn how to best exploit the combat will be irresistibly drawn into this dark fantasy offering.Skyrimfinally has some real competition.
Pandora's Toweris a title that demands you must accept its premise from the very start, as it pitches players headlong into a quest to climb 13 towers and retrieve the flesh of monsters within to lift a curse on the pre-supplied love interest. It is confusing at first but slowly, grudgingly, and to successful effect, the game reveals its secrets.As victorious tower raids gradually unveil the world and its characters, the narrative drip-feed is tempered by some of the most engrossing action gaming on the Wii. Though most attacks mean a repetitive hammering of the A button, the game's signature weapon, the Oraclos chain, adds versatility. Targeting enemies with the Wii remote allows you to constrain them before hacking away body parts and delivering thecoup de grâce. The chain also proves key to navigation and puzzle-solving.With visuals that push Nintendo's hardware to its limits and multiple endings to discover,Pandora's Toweris the finest&nbsp;game of its kind this side ofZelda.
Price £26,995MPG 70.5Top speed 118mphTwo years ago at the annualWhat Car?awards (some in the motoring world compare them to the Oscars, but they probably also compare themselves to James Hunt) there was a gasp of disbelief as the silken drape slipped from the shoulders of the winning model. There, crouching apologetically in the clouds of dry ice, was not the sublime Audi R8 or Porsche's curvaceous 911 GT3, but Peugeot's latest affordable family car – the 3008. It was boxy, practical and economical – a triumph of common sense, but not of much else. There were cheers from the Peugeot table, of course, but head scratching from most of the others.Finally, I've got round to driving the 3008 and, having spent a week in it, I'm beginning to understand what the fuss was about. For anybody who feels paralysed by choice, the 3008 is a panacea. Officially it's termed a&nbsp;"crossover" vehicle, a&nbsp;name coined by manufacturers (probably after one too many sherbets at theWhat Car?awards) to represent a new species of vehicle that's all things to all drivers: a family hatchback, an MPV and a&nbsp;4x4 all rolled into one.Hybrids from the world of nature tend to be oddballs – zebrules (a zebra crossed with a&nbsp;mule), ligers (lion and tiger) and wholphins (whale and dolphin) – but the 3008 makes  a lot of sense, willingly switching personas to suit your lifestyle  on any particular day.It is spacious with masses of headroom, but at the same time has a&nbsp;remarkably small roadprint (responsible urbanite). It has a huge double-shelf boot with a split tailgate which makes loading easy and gives you somewhere to sit when you're pulling on your wellies (country casual). The interior is lavish and high-quality materials are used throughout (pampered metropolitan). And there's also a host of rather nice extras: anyone fancy a full-length glass roof (bird spotter), a head-up windscreen display (jet-fighter wannabe) or even a massive cooled storage bin between the front seats (cheese smuggler)?All of this was what made each of 3008's many personalities a winner back in 2010. But things have moved on at Peugeot and the 2012 version can add another persona to the list: technical wunderkind.The 3008 is officially the world's first full diesel-electric hybrid car. Oh yes! As a pub brag that's probably not up there with "I once watched Prince Harry playing polo while standing next to Joey fromFriends!" (hard to believe but true). But in terms of the way we power our cars, it represents a new and exciting chapter in motoring history.In traditionally powered  cars, diesel has always offered much greater fuel economy than petrol so it was clearly only a matter of time before manufacturers would harness electric hybrid technology to diesel rather than petrol engines. But the science is complicated and it's taken longer than anyone expected.Still, it's here now and the 3008 is the perfect vehicle to showcase the clever power unit. The 3008 HYbrid4 boasts both a&nbsp;2-litre diesel and a 37bhp electric motor. The diesel gives you driveability at speed and the electric gives you emission-free motoring in town. That's two more personas for the hybrid.There was, however, one fly in the ointment. Official tests register a remarkable 70.5mpg for the HYbrid4, but I managed only 45mpg. A few years ago that would have been outstanding; today, from an eco car, that's average at best…Bikers beware of Treacherous Thursday!Thursday is the most dangerous day to ride a motorbike, according to annual claims data fromBennetts, the UK's bike insurance specialist. Other findings show that: Friday is the second most dangerous day of the week for bikers, while the safest time to be on the road is the weekend; London is the place to avoid if you want to avoid a crash, followed by Leicester, Norwich, Portsmouth and Bristol. Strangely the most vulnerable bikers on the road are men in their 40s named David. So if that's you take particular care.With 28,333 accidents involving motorcycle riders in the UK every year, Bennetts has launched an e-petition to ensure compulsory bike-related questions are included in the driving test to help raise awareness of bikers on the road. At the moment, prospective drivers can pass the driving test without answering a single question relating to motorbikes and bikers. To find out more about the e-petition and sign up, go tobikerpetition.co.uk
In the world of hardcore console titles, where narrative and mechanical intricacy remain dominant design trends,Trials Evolutionremains determinedly and exquisitely simple. A hybrid of automotive and platforming game conventions, this motorcycling title centres on the basic concept of driving in a single direction on a two-dimensional plane. Assuming the role of the virtual rider, using little more than the ability to shift their bodyweight on the bike, the player must traverse a wealth of obstacles to progress in a world where the physics of gravity, friction and balance come together to exert their dictatorial control over gameplay. The rudiments ofTrials Evolutionmay sound straightforward, but the game's world of intertwined ramps and enormous jumps offers a remarkably nuanced and exciting experience. The precision of control that can be achieved by manipulating these elementary forces is remarkable and, in combination with gameworld physics that are elegantly refined, makes for a constantly rewarding experience full of variety.Moreover, for those concerned thatEvolutionsimply duplicates the form of the previous Trials game without innovation, fear not. A wealth of multiplayer modes and an outstandingly elaborate level editor means this sequel comfortably trumps its forebear. A simple but brilliant piece of entertainment.
Fez, Xbox 360Our hero Gomez lives in a resolutely 2D world, which is why his discovery of a mysterious third dimension proves amusingly unsettling to fellow inhabitants. It also means that every scene in the game can be rotated to shift perspective, reducing cavernous gulfs to nothing and letting Gomez investigate the strange interstices of its stages. Rendered in mock 8-bit style, the world of Fez is deceptively complex, with levels interconnecting in a mind-bending cubic spiderweb, visualised in a world map that also tells you whether you've found all the items in each of the game's many areas. The understated wit and sheer scale of its invention make playing a unique pleasure, even if bugs at launch have caused problems for some players. Developer, Polytron has promised a remedial patch.Polytron, approx £6.80 via XBLAMachinarium, iPadMachinariumTelling the story of a small robot's progress through the underbelly of a grimy android metropolis, Machinarium's trick is to imbue every single automaton you meet with astonishing levels of charm and pathos; even the props convey a sense of intimacy. It's a point-and-click adventure, which means tapping around the screen looking for clues and objects to help solve its puzzles. It's easy to get stuck and some of the challenges require fairly abstruse solutions, but with the internet to help you cheat, it won't spoil your enjoyment of this beautiful and atmospheric game. It's incompatible with first-gen iPads, however, soon doubtless to become a common complaint.Amanita Design, £2.99Swordigo, iOSSwordigoSwordigo is a role-playing title that looks somewhat like a platform game. That's to say, your sword-wielding cartoon knight needs to perform a series of precarious jumps before going on to slay monsters, find hidden treasure and gradually upgrade health, magic and swordsmanship levels. There are a multitude of characters to meet, quests to undertake and a wide variety of cute, slightly homemade-looking scenery to explore. Swordigo's uncanny knack for getting things right happily extends to touch-screen controls that just shouldn't work as well as they do, making this an immensely satisfying mini-adventure.Ville Mäkynen, £1.49Games newsDisgaea 3: Absence Of DetentionOf this week's releasesDisgaea 3: Absence Of Detention(Vita), claims the title of best quirky turn-based strategy game;Bleach: Soul Resurrección(PS3) a new instalment of the long-running series that seems almost designed to baffle newcomers; andWarhammer: 40,000 Dawn Of War – Ultimate Collection(PC), containing every single game in the franchise …Bethesda has announced that a forthcoming free update will let Xbox-owningSkyrimplayers use Kinect voice control to cast spells, swap equipment and command allies in what may finally be a useful application of the technology that powers the supremely terribleKinect Star Wars…Finally, Nintendo's game design genius, Shigeru Miyamoto has singled outAngry Birdsfor praise, which is odd because despite its runaway success it's a game with all the heart and soul of a tax inspector, demanding such fastidious perfection that "game" might not even be the right word.
Porsche 911 drivers are wankers, right? I've always known this to be a universally accepted fact, proven beyond doubt way back in the 1980s. And that the correct behaviour on encountering one is to do the internationally recognised sign for onanism. Male onanism, because I'm really only talking about male Porsche drivers here (the much rarer female variety, a very different –&nbsp;and more impressive – being).It's an ugly, undecorous gesture, though, and some time ago I came up with a new response – simply to point at the man in the car and to laugh at him. Not a haha, lovely, joyous, laughing-with-him laugh; but a cruel, pitying laugh. It works well at zebra crossings if they're at the front of the queue, because then you can look them right in the eye as you do it. The object is to induce both rage and confusion. It's especially entertaining in America, because they simply don't understand – why's that crazy freak laughing at me? He should be&nbsp;applauding!Now I'm seeing it from the other side. For the first time (I know it's hard to believe of a famous motoring journalist, but I've never driven a&nbsp;911). So I'm not really in a position to say how it compares with its predecessor. Yes, it may look pretty much exactly the same, but this is an all-new model – a&nbsp;little longer, a little lighter, a little more refined and more efficient, with new electronic-mechanical steering and a&nbsp;load of other stuff you probably (and I&nbsp;certainly) won't be interested&nbsp;in or understand. (There's&nbsp;a PDK gearbox, by the way,&nbsp;which stands for prettty damn&nbsp;kickass.)I do know that this car doesn't belong in the modern world, a&nbsp;world of clogged roads, speed cameras, thrift and care and disapproval (and gesturing haters). This is the bog-standard one I've got, but it's insanely quick – the only place you could begin to appreciate it properly would be on the track. It's&nbsp;impractical, unacceptable, plain&nbsp;wrong.And yet I absobloodylutely love it. Because it feels – and sounds, and even smells – so utterly, utterly right. It took me about 4.6 seconds to turn (by which time I was doing 60). Who cares if they're making wanker signs at me? I am a wanker now.Then they came and took it away from me, probably just as well. I&nbsp;think I probably will continue to do my thing, the laughing-pointing. But it won't be quite the same. It won't just be about hatred and disdain, it'll be more complicated than that, there'll be other things going on, too. To be honest, there probably always have been.Porsche 911 CarreraPrice£79,843Top speed178mphAcceleration0-62mph in 4.6 secondsAverage consumption34.4mpgCO2 emissions194g/kmEco rating2/10Cool rating3/10
YouTube must take down copyrighted clips of music, a German court has ruled, in a move that could be a step towards forcing it to pay large sums in royalties.The move is a fresh setback for Google's video site after a US appeals court this month reopened a $1bn (£620m) case brought by media conglomerate Viacom, as well as the Premier League and other media companies against YouTube in the US over copyrighted videos on the site.Gema, a German royalties group, scored the victory in Hamburg on Friday, where the court ruled the website was responsible for the content its users published, a decision that could be a first step towards YouTube – and potentially other internet publishers – having to pay royalties on videos with copyrighted music embedded in the soundtrack.The case, for allegedly infringing the copyright on seven music clips, was brought against YouTube in 2010 by Gema and several other groups handling music rights.YouTube argued it merely provided the technical framework to publish content and was not responsible for monitoring videos and music clips for possible copyright violations.The court ruled that YouTube was responsible for the content users post online and should remove any clips for which Gema had asserted copyright protection. It also said YouTube did not have to proactively trawl through its site in search of possible copyright violations, but must remove clips at the request of the rights holder.In a statement, YouTube said: "This court's interpretation of the European Union Copyright Directive would make it much more difficult for user generated content platforms to operate. It would jeopardise not only YouTube but every other innovative service on the internet that allows users to submit content by forcing them to implement filtering."A spokesman for Gema said: "This is an important partial victory."The agency, which says it represents more than 64,000 songwriters and musicians, demands that music-on-demand platforms that stream music to users for free and are financed by advertisements pay just over 10% of their music revenues.Sites that are very interactive should also have to pay at least €0.006 per stream, according to Gema.YouTube says 60 hours of video are uploaded to its site every minute, and more than 3bn hours of video are watched on the platform each month.Google said on Friday it was prepared to resume negotiations with Gema to seek an agreement on the use of copyrighted content. Gema and YouTube held talks from April 2009 until the suit was filed in September 2010, with no result.Recent lawsuits have centred on a crucial issue for media companies: how to win internet viewers without ceding control of TV shows, movies and music.A push for better legal protection of artists' and media companies' rights has met opposition from those who fear tighter regulation will curb their freedom to download movies and music for free and encourage internet surveillance.Earlier this year, tens of thousands of demonstrators took to the streets across Europe to protest against an international anti-piracy agreement.One vocal group opposing the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (ACTA) is Germany's upstart Pirate party, which came out of nowhere last year and according to a recent poll has overtaken the Greens to become the third strongest political grouping in the country.The arrest of Kim Dotcom, the German national who founded the online file-sharing site Megaupload.com, earlier this year is the most prominent recent case of authorities cracking down on copyright infringement.Prosecutors say he was the ringleader of a group that netted $175m since 2005 by copying and distributing music, movies and other copyrighted content without authorisation.• This article was amended on 25 April 2012. The original said very interactive sites should have to pay at least €0.60 per stream, according to Gema. This has been corrected.
One owns a half-share in a 767 jumbo jet, the other flies a Russian MiG-29 fighter (and has reportedly tried his hand at mock aerial dogfights).This week Larry Page, the 39-year-old co-founder of Google, and Larry Ellison, the 67-year-old Oracle chief executive and MiG owner, have been testifying in a San Francisco court as their companies clash over accusations that elements of Google's mobile phone software were copied without a licence from Oracle-owned software.The case pits Silicon Valley "old money" against a new generation. Ellison made his pile producing software for big organisations in the days before the internet changed everything; Page's business is successful precisely because of the internet revolution.The two companies are almost the same size, with $38bn (£23.6bn) in annual revenues and between $8bn and $9bn in profits. In the lawsuit, lodged in August 2010, Oracle accuses Google of infringing copyrights and a single patent related to the Java programming language, acquired along with Sun Microsystems in April 2009. It is the biggest legal fight in the technology industry since 1998, when the US department of justice sued Microsoft for breaking antitrust law – and won.Though Microsoft survived the subsequent court-ordered sanctions, it was never the same again. And the effect could be just as significant if Oracle wins. It would, say observers, give copyright protection to elements of a computer language known as "APIs" - application programming interfaces - that tell software how to carry out specified commands. "That could potentially turn the industry on its head," Mark Webbink, executive director of the Centre for Patent Innovations at New York Law School, told the San Francisco Mercury. It could also lead to many more copyright fights in an industry that is already wary, and wearying, of legal wrangles over patents such as those between Apple and Android handset companies.For Google, it could mean paying royalties on every copy of Android used – now about 300m handsets and tablets worldwide – which would defeat the purpose of making it free to use.Oracle's lead lawyer is David Boies, who acted for the US government against Microsoft, famously getting Bill Gates to appear "evasive and nonresponsive" (to quote an observer) in a video deposition during which he queried the meaning of "compete" and "ask", and frequently responded: "I don't recall."When Boies examined Page this week, there were what looked like echoes of those moments. Page will have been well aware of it – when he set up Google with Sergey Brin and adopted a company motto of "Don't Be Evil", the pair had Microsoft's misdeeds in mind.Boies sought to get Page, dressed in a shirt and tie rather than the more casual gear of Google's headquarters, to say whether he thought Java was free. Page was elusive to the extent that Judge William Alsup – who has presided over a number of hi-tech trials – told him to answer: "Yes, no, I don't know or I don't recall." Page frequently opted for the latter, according to court reports.But Ellison did not escape unscathed. In previous video testimony, asked whether anybody could use Java without paying a royalty, he replied: "That's correct" – but on the stand, he replied: "Not sure." His testimony on the stand and in the video seemed at odds more than once.Google contends that Java is open for anyone to use, and that it used the same names for elementswhich it argues are like parts of speech such as verbs or nouns, and can't be copyrighted. Oracle says that they are creative work – "building blocks" to quote Ellison – and so attract copyright, and that Google has infringed that. It is demanding a multimillion-dollar payout and a cut of Google's revenues from search and purchase on Android – the latter being a figure Google has fought hard to keep secret.The trial has already produced surprises. Ellison said that Oracle – a business software maker – had considered but rejected buying BlackBerry maker RIM and smartphone company Palm (the latter since acquired and closed by Hewlett-Packard).Page surprised onlookers who have heard him enthuse about the growth in the use of smartphones powered by Android software. Asked whether Android was a critical asset for Google, he replied: "It was important. I wouldn't say critical." For those observing Google's increasing efforts to stay ahead of the internet's shift to mobile – internet-enabled phones are forecast to outnumber PCs online as soon as next year by 1.82bn to 1.78bn – playing down Android was unexpected.In the industry, sympathies are split. Oracle is famous as a tough negotiator and ferocious litigator that wraps customers tightly in its embrace. Ellison is its public face, a billionaire born in New York to an unmarried mother and an Air Force pilot. He has fought bitter battles with business rivals, married and divorced four times, is the owner of one of the largest yachts in the world and many exotic cars. Oracle is not the sort of company to have inhouse frivolities, unlike Google's freewheeling culture.On theGroklawwebsite – which backs open source software, denounces its patenting and has been running daily unofficial transcripts from the court – Oracle are clearly the bad guys. Ellison may as well have horns.Yet some in the industry sympathise with him. They feel Sun was ineffectual and let Google run all over it, as it has to others. "Some ten years ago we dropped Java from our products because it was something like 95% open source, which means not open source," Richard Zybert, of Zybert Computing in Birmingham, which makes servers, routers and USB devices, told the Guardian. "I have mixed feelings about this. Oracle are idiots, but I don't believe Google didn't know what they were doing. It's just when you grow like this, you get careless. This is not the first time Google has acted like the law was for little people."Yet it may be that legal doctrine will not, in the end, decide the case. Ilya Kazi, a partner at law firm Mathys &amp; Squire, points out that the case is being heard in front of a lay jury, including a plumber, a retired postman, a store designer for Gap and a nurse. "I could talk at length about the niceties of copyright law," he told the Guardian. "But I don't think that will be what decides it. It's going to be decided in the jury room by who they like or don't like."Key questionsOracle lawyer:Can you copyright a computer programming language?Larry Ellison, Oracle CEO:I don't know if you can … I just don't know that.Lawyer:If you discovered that lines of code had been copied from someone else's [intellectual property], would this be a violation of Google policy?Larry Page, Google CEO:The question is a hypothetical one, but yes, it would be a problem.LawyerAndroid was a critical asset for Google?LP:It was important. I&nbsp;wouldn't say "critical".Lawyer:You are on the Google board of directors … wasn't the board told&nbsp;that this was a critical asset?LP:They may have been, but I do not agree with that characterisation.
There are worse ways to spend an afternoon than perusing the Top Grossing charts of the big app stores, if you want to understand the dynamics of the apps market.I wanted to crunch some data from the Google Play store for Android, to see what kind of apps are making the most money there, and particularly to look at what proportion of apps are paid versus free.And? Here are the results of the analysis, based on the UK Google Play top grossing apps chart, as it stood in the afternoon of 20 April, with the data coming from the Google Play website.The topline results: 75% of the 100 top grossing Android apps in the UK – on Google's store at least – are free to install, and make their money from in-app purchases. Note, all these figures are based on consumer spending, rather than advertising.But what's even more clear is the dominance of one particular kind of free app within this, since 68 of the 100 apps are freemium games. In fact, 18 of the 20 top grossing Android apps in the UK were free games, led by Gameloft's Ice Age Village, Zynga's Zynga Poker and TinyCo's Tiny Village.Meanwhile, of the 25 paid apps in the chart, 13 were games, meaning that games accounted for 81% of the 100 top grossing apps at the time my analysis was performed.Getting back to the freemium games, you can see some names familiar from the iOS world, like Gameloft (four free-to-play games in the 100 top grossing chart), Glu Mobile (seven), Storm8 (five) and Teamlava (five), along with Zynga (three, or four if you count newly-acquired Draw Something, which still lists OMGPOP as its publisher). Others, like Game Insight and Droidhen, are more prominent on Android than iOS.When you browse the Google Play store, each app is assigned into a bucket of "Installs" – a very rough guide to how many times it's been installed. The Installs figures are global rather than UK-specific, but they're still useful.The sweet spot for freemium games on Android seems to be the 1m-5m installs zone, with 32 games from the chart falling into this bucket. Another 13 have notched up 5m-10m installs, and a select group of six are into 10m-50m territory (Ant Smasher, Drag Racing, Live Holdem Poker Pro, Tap Fish, Temple Run and Draw Something Free).18 of the 20 top grossing Android apps are freemium gamesWhen you look at the paid games that have made it into the top 100, it's more usually 100k-500k installs for games like Cut the Rope: Experiments, Angry Birds Space Premium, Worms, Sonic CD and The Sims 3, although Where's My Water, the paid version of Draw Something and Minecraft have all made it to 500k-1m installs, and the original Cut the Rope is in the 1m-5m bucket.The common theme there? All trusted brands, either from console/PC, or from sheer popularity on Android and iOS. Football seems to be doing well, too: both FIFA 12 and Football Manager Handheld 2012 are in the 10k-50k global installs bucket, but are still on the chart – the latter in 11th place with a £6.99 price.Outside games, there are less obvious lessons. To get into the 100 top grossing chart, you can charge £20 or more if you have a certain kind of app, like navigation (CoPilot Live), sports (Golfshot: Golf GPS, F1 2012 Timing App) or medical (Anesthesia Central at a whopping £93.28, and 100-500 installs).DocumentsToGo and Quickoffice Pro have been doing good business at just under £10 each too, with 500k-1m and 100k-500k installs respectively.It's just a snapshot, and a snapshot of one country at that. But a useful one for gauging the evolving character of Google's store. It also shows why freemium games publishers are moving fastest from iOS-only to iOS+Android strategies.What about Apple though? I fired up iTunes on my desktop and checked the iPhone Top Grossing chart in the UK, and found that 45 of the top 100 apps were freemium games, with another 22 being paid games - 67% overall.Less than Google's store, then, but still a sign that a lot of the money being made from the world's two biggest app stores is coming from games, and free-to-play games in particular.Here's the core data that I used for the analysis, if it's of use.Google Play Store – Top Grossing AppsPos.App TitlePublisherPrice (£)CategoryInstalls1Ice Age VillageGameloft0Games1m-5m2Draw SomethingOMGPOP0.62Games500k-1m3Zynga PokerZynga0Games5m-10m4Tiny VillageTinyCo0Games1m-5m5Airport CityGame Insight0Games1m-5m6The Sims FreePlayEA0Games1m-5m7Smurfs' VillageBeeline Interactive0Games5m-10m8Drag Racing: Bike EditionCreative Mobile0Games1m-5m9ComicsComixology0Comics1m-5m10Paradise IslandGame Insight0Games5m-10m11Football Manager Handheld 2012Sega6.99Games10k-50k12Defender IIDroidhen0Games1m-5m13Temple RunImangi Studios0Games10m-50m14Live Holdem Poker ProDragonplay0Games10m-50m15Big BusinessGame Insight0Games1m-5m16Draw Something FreeOMGPOP0Games10m-50m17Texas PokerKamagames0Games5m-10m18Tap FishGameview Studios0Games10m-50m19The Oregon Trail: SettlerGameloft0Games1m-5m20Slot City - Slot MachinesDragonplay0Games500k-1m21Crime CityFunzio0Games1m-5m22Contract KillerGlu Mobile0Games5m-10m23Norton AntiVirus and SecurityNorton Mobile0Tools1m-5m24Hello Kitty Beauty SalonSanrio Digital0Games1m-5m25Bakery StoryTeamlava Games0Games5m-10m26GSN CasinoGSN.com0Games100k-500k27Coin DozerGame Circus0Games5m-10m28RobinsonPixonic0Games500k-1m29Frontline CommandoGlu Mobile0Games5m-10m30SlotomaniaPlaytika0Games1m-5m31Restaurant StoryTeamlava Games0Games5m-10m32Hello Kitty SeasonsSanrio Digital0Games500k-1m33Marvel ComicsMarvel Comics0Comics1m-5m34F1 2012 Timing App - PremiumSoft Pauer19.99Sports10k-50k35Drag RacingCreative Mobile0Games10m-50m36Six-GunsGameloft0Games1m-5m37Enchanted RealmGame Insight0Games500k-1m38Angry Birds Space PremiumRovio0.63Games100k-500k39GeocachingGroundspeak6.19Entertainment100k-500k40Lookout Security & AntivirusLookout Mobile Security0Tools10m-50m41Cut the RopeZeptoLab0.62Games1m-5m42Documents ToGo Full VersionDataviz9.49Business500k-1m43Bug VillageGlu Mobile0Games1m-5m44My CountryGame Insight0Games1m-5m45Pet Shop StoryTeamlava Games0Games500k-1m46World WarStorm8 Games0Games5m-10m47Dungeon Hunter 3Gameloft0Games500k-1m48Mini PetsMiniclip.com0Games100k-500k49Small StreetGlu Mobile0Games1m-5m50Shoot the AppleDroidhen0Games5m-10m51Dream ZooZynga0Games1m-5m52Dream HeightsZynga0Games500k-1m53Fashion StoryTeamlava Games0Games5m-10m54Zoo Story 2: Pets and AnimalsTeamlava Games0Games10k-50k55Stardom: The A-ListGlu Mobile0Games500k-1m56CoPilot Live Premium EuropeALK Technologies33.32Travel & Local10k-50k57Pirates of the CaribbeanDisney0Games1m-5m58iMobstersStorm8 Games0Games1m-5m59Deer Hunter ChallengeGlu Mobile0Games1m-5m60Quickoffice ProQuickoffice9.73Business100k-500k61Racing Live - 12 PointsStorm8 Games0Games1m-5m62UK Driving Theory TestWebrich Software2.99Education10k-50k63Tap ZooPocket Gems0Games1m-5m64Ant SmasherBest, Cool & Fun Games0Games10m-50m65Coin PiratesNubee0Games1m-5m66iMobsters - 12 Favor PointsStorm8 Games0Games1m-5m67Avatar FightVirtuesoft0Games500k-100k68Stick CricketStick Sports0Games1m-5m69F1 2012 Timing AppSoft Pauer0Sports100k-500k70Cut the Rope: ExperimentsZeptoLab0.62Games100k-500k71Pocketmags Magazine NewsstandTri Active Media0News & Magazines10k-50k72Vampires LiveStorm8 Games0Games1m-5m73Minecraft - Pocket EditionMojang4.29Games500k-1m74Golfshot: Golf GPSShotzoom Software18.94Sports10k-50k75DefenderDroidhen0Games5m-10m76Rage of BahamutMobage0Games100k-500k77Anesthesia CentralUnbound Medicine93.28Medical100-50078Haypi KingdomHaypi0Games1m-5m79Zenonia 4Gamevil0Games1m-5m80Top GirlCrowdstar0Games500k-1m81The Sims 3EA3.99Games100k-500k82Cafeteria NipponicaKairosoft2.99Games5k-10k83Real Madrid Fantasy ManagerReal Madrid0Games100k-500k84SwiftKey X KeyboardTouchtype2.49Productivity1m-5m85ROM Manager (Premium)Clockworkmod3.99Tools100k-500k86Road Warrior: Top Racing GameTop Free Apps and Games0Games500k-1m87FIFA 12EA4.15Games10k-50k88doubleTwist PlayerDoubleTwist0Music & Audio5m-10m89Real Steel FreeJump Games0Games500k-1m90Co-Pilot Live Premium UK + IREALK Technologies20.82Travel & Local10k-50k91WormsEA1.49Games100k-500k92Babylonian Twins PlatformerCosmos Interactive0Games100k-500k93Sonic CDSega3.14Games100k-500k94MyBackup ProRerware3.12Tools100k-500k95Blood & Glory (NR)Glu Mobile0Games1m-5m96Life is CrimeRed Robot Labs0Games1m-5m97Coin Dozer: World TourGame Circus0Games500k-1m98Where's My Water?Disney0.62Games500k-1m99MonopolyEA2.99Games50k-100k100Bingo Heaven - Free BingoSuper Lucky Casino0Games500k-1m
UFC Undisputed 3 ...Xbox 360/PS3; £39.99 cert 15+; THQUFC Undisputed 3 is one of the richest, most detailed fighting games around. You can pick from a roster of 150 fighters across seven weight divisions, mimicking the organisation of real life mixed martial arts, and the game remains as true as it can to reality throughout. Game modes include online play, a streamlined career mode, competitions and a stamina simulation mode that requires you to conserve energy and play strategically, as well as Pride mode - by far my favourite - which allows you to repeatedly mash your opponent's head into the ground and perform other moves that are quite definitely illegal in standard UFC. There's a lot of depth and realism to the fighting mechanics, and though I'm not a UFC aficionada personally I found it fairly easy to get into the game thanks to the comprehensive tutorials. The game does its best to entice pro players and amateurs to play together, and it's possible to get by with button-mashing - but more rewarding to play with pro controls and chain combos.Mary HamiltonJewel Master: Cradle of Persia ...DS; £29.99 cert 3+; Rising Star GamesJewel Master: Cradle of Persia is a match-3 puzzle game, in the vein of Bejewelled but with a few extra mechanics to keep things interesting. The game challenges you to clear boards in a limited time, collecting resources to upgrade your city in the process. The boards contain certain tiles that have to be cleared in order to progress, as well as chained gems that need matching twice and bonus tiles that charge up to help you along the way. It's a long, fairly challenging game, but unfortunately the city-building adventure element is very shallow and occasional slider-puzzle sections don't add enough variety to the game to keep most players interested.Mary HamiltonWario Land: Super Mario Land 3DS/3DS; £3.60 at Nintendo eShop; cert 3+; NintendoNintendo's bad boy is back in this Game Boy classic from way back in 1994 – and in stunning black-and-white! This is the game that saw Wario go from being a baddie in Super Mario Land 2 to a playable character and a star in his own right. It follows the same basic sideways-scrolling platform action as the Mario games, with Wario setting out to get back the castle that Mario took from him. As with the Super Mario Land games, you need to collect coins and defeat baddies – the usual stuff. But one advantage that Wario has up his sleeve is his brute strength and some special moves, such as his body slam. One of the best games of this series, and at just £3.60, an absolute must buy for nostalgia buffs who want to relive those button-mashing Game Boy good times.Stuart O'ConnorMetal Gear Solid HD Collection  ...Xbox 360/PS3; £39.99 cert 15+; KonamiFor those of us who played and loved the Metal Gear games the first time  round, this collection is a great value trip down memory lane. On two  discs, you get fairly basic HD ports of five games: Metal Gear, MG2:  Solid Snake, Metal Gear Solid: Peace Walker, MGS2: Sons of Liberty and  MGS3: Snake Eater. It's worth the price for a good hit of retro gaming  nostalgia, and worth picking up for the last two games for new players - even though their gameplay feels a little old now and you still have to sit through those interminable MGS3 cutscenes.Mary HamiltonDillon's Rolling Western3DS; £9 at Nintendo eShop; cert 7+; VanpoolDillon's Rolling Western is a cute tower defense game in which you play as Dillon, an armadillo cowboy who rides into villages to protect them from attacking rock monsters called groks. You spend daytime collecting resources, barricading your base and upgrading towers, and at night fight off waves of bad guys in remarkably fun minigames using the stylus to roll, scratch and grind them to dust. One of the better games I've played on the 3DS, with a great difficulty curve and lots of replayability. Very impressive for a download-only title.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?Well obviously the mobile phone, and particularly the Apple iPhone –which I think is just tremendous. I mean, it's not so much phone, it's more of a computer, really. All the Apple products I absolutely adore. The mobile phone, and the iPhone in particular, have revolutionised your life. I was doing Facetime with someone in Bermuda the other day. And I keep in touch with my sister who lives in Poole, in Dorset, on the iPad – on Facetime. It's just a terrific bit of technology. But I'm very into gadgets. I had probably one of the first satellite dishes in the country, and certainly one of the first satnavs as well.When was the last time you used it, and what for?About five minutes ago, to get an email.What additional features would you add if you could?I can't honestly think of anything. The technology in it is terrific.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?I'm sure there'll be something else that comes along. At the moment, Apple are the leaders in the field, I think. What I love about their technology is that Steve Jobs saw that what he had to do was make all this stuff easy to operate. People just want to plug it is and the thing works, and that's what's wonderful about Apple.What always frustrates you about technology in general?I think we're still in the infancy of [things like] 3G and Wi-Fi, and sometimes it doesn't work. I'd like to be able to have Wi-Fi everywhere, so you don't have to hunt for a hotspot. It would be nice if we were completely linked up to it, and I think that's where 4G will come in. Mobile phone reception is also very frustrating. Where I live, which is very near Elstree, I can't get a proper signal in my house, which is ridiculous. If someone rings me on my mobile phone, I have to go outside into the garden to hear them. I would have thought by now they'd be able to get the signals 100% right. It's absolutely daft.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Embrace it, to start with. It's not difficult, and we all learn from one another. I also think it's very important for people to keep up to date with it.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I'm a nerd, I'm certainly not a luddite. I've got everything, and I tend to get them ahead of a lot of the youngsters I know, as well. At radio stations I go to, quite honestly a lot of the younger people come to me for advice on how to do this stuff.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?I've got a home cinema, with a digital projector. I've had it about 10 years, and that was about £12,000. I haven't replaced it, because it's so good. I think the sound is slightly better than the Odeon Leicester Square!Mac or PC, and why?I've got a PC, which I'm very happy with, [but] I think the Mac is very very good. I just like all Apple stuff. But I have got a PC, I haven't got a Mac, actually. I've got the iPad, my wife's got an iPad and my daughter's got an iPad; and we've all got iPhones. On the other hand, I've got an old Toshiba PC and it works beautifully, and I've got a Dell computer which I use to download a lot of my music and stuff like that.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download?I download stuff.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Oh yeah, terrific – a great idea. I'd love one of those.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I love the idea of the self-driving car. To be able to get into a car, and say, "I want to go to that address," and it drives you there – fantastic. I'd love that. And that will happen in the next 10 years. Before I die, I want to have my own self-drive car.• Tony Blackburn can be seen as himself in the film Kill Keith, out now on DVD
The Guardian's Open 20was compiled by asking a simple question – who are the people, in your view, who've had the most impact on the open internet?Journalists, activists, hackers and others, some high-profile and some not were asked, and the resulting list of very different characters was whittled down to a list of 20.How can you compare a evangeliser, to a hacktivist, to the founder of a multi-billion dollar business in a systematic way? In short, you can't. We hope the list reflects the diverse nature of the open net, the different ideas of what the open net is, and the different ways in which people contribute to it.But more than anything else - it's the start of a discussion. There's thousands of great people not on our list. And that's just the ones we know about.Read the open 20 listand tell us whose contribution to the net you would not be able to live without. Who's sticking it to censorship, snooping, or walled gardens? Which 'villain' can't be ignored?Let us know byleaving a comment in the thread belowwith your nomination for a readers' alternative to the Guardian Open 20 and explain why you've chosen that individual. They can be living or dead, but you should tell us what is they have done or are doing that makes them stand out to you.Comments on this thread will close at 9am (BST) on Monday 23 April. Our editorial team will then select the best suggestions and most well-argued nominees and open it to your vote.
Rickard FalkvingeFounder, the Pirate partyFalkvinge founded the Swedish Pirate party in 2006 to focus on reforming copyright, patents and file sharing laws. The party now has an often marginal presence in 22 countries, with significant presence in Sweden, where it has two members of the European parliament, and Germany, where it polls as the third biggest political party.Birgitta Jonsdottir, the MP instrumental in Iceland becoming a sanctuary for free speech.Birgitta JonsdottirMP, The Movement, IcelandA poet-activist turned politician, Jonsdottir has been a member of the Icelandic parliament since 2009. Best known for her involvement in bringing the WikiLeaks Collateral Murder video to the public, Jonsdottir has also been instrumental in Iceland's efforts to become a free-speech haven, and is one of the plaintiffs suing the US government over the proposed surveillance powers granted by the NDAA bill.John Perry BarlowCo-founder, Electronic Frontier FoundationThe EFF, founded in 1990, described itself as "the first line of defence" when online freedoms come under attack. Through a mix of direct action, legal challenges and political advocacy, the group lobbies on freedom of speech, surveillance and intellectual property issues. The former Grateful Dead lyricist was one of the EFF's founding members and has been one of its loudest public voices ever since.Jacob AppelbaumAdvocate, Researcher and Developer, Tor projectAppelbaum, a computer science researcher at the University of Washington, is one of the core team of the Tor project, which protects the anonymity of thousands of internet users across the world. Also described as the group's main advocate, Appelbaum came to wider public attention after being repeatedly stopped and searched by US officials at airports, who confiscated his electronic equipment, after he stood in for Julian Assange at a talk.Julian AssangeEditor-in-chief, WikiLeaksThe driving force behind WikiLeaks, Assange has directed the publication of secret documents on the Afghan and Iraq wars, Guantánamo Bay prisoner files, and 250,000 US diplomatic cables. Assange is nothing if not a divisive figure, with his many disputes a matter of public record across the world – but despite these (or perhaps because of it), Assange is perhaps the figurehead of the free internet movement and a powerful voice because of it.Ada LovelaceComputer programmerAda Lovelace, who died in 1852, serves as an inspiration on the open internet. Lovelace worked with Charles Babbage on his difference engine, wrote some of the first programs for it, and so is often described as the world's first computer programmer. Unlike Babbage, she foresaw the role of computers in making music, art and more. In recent yearsAda Lovelace Dayhas become an online institution, aimed at promoting the role of women in science and technology, and upping their profile in the media.Richard StallmanFounder, Free Software FoundationA masked hacker of the Anonymous group hacks the Elysée Palace website in January 2012.One of the world's most vocal advocates for free software (rather than open source, a term he hates), Stallman tours the world preaching the virtues of software which is free to use and free to edit. Stallman is more than a proselytiser, though – he's also one of the principal coders of many components of GNU (an operating system he established).Sir Tim Berners-LeeInventor of the world wide webAs inventor of one of the most visible areas of the internet – the world-wide web – Berners-Lee's role in internet history was already secure. He hasn't, however, rested on his laurels: he is instrumental in pushing open data at high level to governments around the world, and is a campaigner against a two-tier internet. He's also recently apologised for the two forward slashes at the start of web addresses (http://), which he admits are "completely unnecessary".Professor Sebastian ThrunFounder, UdacityProfessor Thrun was not a man needing to worry about his next paycheck: as a tenured professor in artificial intelligence at the elite Stanford University, he had a job for life. Not content with teaching to a relatively small number of students, he opened up access to his lectures online for free, through a site called Udacity. In its first year, more than 140,000 students signed up for his class.AnonsLegion, everywhereThe Anonymous rallying cry – "We are Anonymous. We are legion. Expect us" – is not to everyone's taste, but it's certainly well known. Unlike its sister group Lulzsec, the Anonymous collective is genuinely fragmentary and leaderless – and so has continued despite FBI arrests largely paralysing Lulzsec. The hackers recently took the Home Office and No 10 websites briefly offline in protest at proposed internet surveillance laws.Bram CohenChief Scientist, BitTorrentBram Cohen is not a popular man in Hollywood. Cohen invented not only the peer-to-peer technology behind the BitTorrent network, but also the software for users to share files. The technology now claims more than 100 million active users each month, downloading about 400,000 files every day – some legal, but many copyrighted films, music and TV programmes.Peter Sunde was one of the people behind Pirate Bay, a portal for file sharers, and founded Flattr, a micropayments site for bloggers.Linus TorvaldsChief architect, LinuxFor those unwilling to fork out for Microsoft Windows or Apple's Mac OSX, there is a free alternative available, which comes with the added benefit (for coders) that it's open to modify and personalise – Linux. Linus Torvalds is the Finnish-American software engineer who initiated the project, and he's shepherded the numerous different distributions ever since as an advocate for open source and free software.Lawrence LessigFounder, Creative CommonsWhile many hacktivists are content merely to ignore copyright laws and risk the consequences, Lawrence Lessig has taken a gentler approach, introducing a type of licence allowing the sharing of content without charge. People who create works which would normally be subject to copyright can use Creative Commons (CC) licences to allow free reuse, adding non-commercial or non-modifying clauses if they wish. More than 100m images across the net are already available under CC licences.Alex MacGillivrayGeneral counsel, TwitterAlex MacGillivray, the chief lawyer for Twitter, is credited with coming up with the company's mantra of being "the free-speech wing of the free-speech party", and has been a driving force in the site's efforts to retain maximum transparency while not falling foul of the law. Recent efforts to move censorship of tweets to a country-by-country basis, rather than blocking worldwide, initially provoked a backlash but were eventually seen by many as a clever way to take minimal required action under the lawDr Susan LandauCybersecurity researcher, Guggenheim FellowSusan Landau is a visiting scholar in the computer science department of Harvard University with a 30-year publishing history on cyber-security, surveillance and cryptography, and is an advocate of users' privacy, and the risks of embedding surveillance in routine communications. She is also an advocate for women in science, and runs the ResearcHers email group. She won the Women of Vision social impact award in 2008.Jimmy WalesChairman, Wikimedia foundationJimmy Wales is the man behind Wikipedia, the world's biggest encyclopedia (with 21m articles), and one compiled entirely by volunteer editors, with anyone able to edit articles at any time. On top of these achievements, Wales has recently boosted his open internet credentials by encouraging the site's board to waive the site's famed neutrality for the first time by participating in an internet blackout, effectively closing the English-language site for a day, in protest at the US's proposed Sopa law against piracy.Peter SundeCo-founder, Pirate BayPeter Sunde was one of the people behind the Pirate Bay – a search engine granting access to more than 4m files on the BitTorrent network, and a key portal for file sharers everywhere. The site has long evaded legal attempts at shutdown, but Sunde has moved on – founding Flattr, a micropayments site aimed at giving independent sites and blogs a voluntary revenue stream. Pirate Bay, meanwhile, claims it is working on servers on airborne drones, to ensure no government is ever able to take it offline.Clay ShirkyWriter, assistant professor at New York UniversityClay Shirky was one of the first passionate advocates for crowdsourcing, collaboration and aggregation of online content and journalism, and consequently of the open institutions needed to allow such efforts to take place. Shirky encourages institutions to reform ready for the networked world, and is credited as one of the thinkers who inspired the Guardian's open journalism efforts.Aaron SwartzProgrammer, activistIf a Tunisian market-seller began the Arab spring, it is perhaps fair to credit Aaron Swartz with fuelling the "academic spring", if allegations against him are proved. Swartz was accused of downloading more than 4m academic articles from the JSTOR site in an attempt to improve open access to academic literature. After his indictment – to which he pleads not guilty – others around the net shared tens of thousands of papers without permission. Moves to free up access to academic papers through legitimate channels have now accelerated, with a leading funder, the Wellcome Trust, and UK ministers now backing open access.Heather BrookeJournalist and activistA campaigner for freedom of information and against the surveillance state, Heather Brooke was instrumental in the legal actions which exposed MPs' abuse of their expenses system. During her research into hacker culture and online activism, Brooke obtained the WikiLeaks embassy cables and was one of the journalists working on the project. She sits on the advisory board of the Open Rights Group and is a visiting professor at City University, London.Who have we missed? Tell us bynominating your choices for the Open 20 in the comments here.
If there is a battle over the future shape of the internet – and society as a whole - then hacktivist groups such as Anonymous and Lulzsec, Wikileaks and the file-sharing site Megaupload.com are among the frontline battalions.While the individual incidents and clashes involving these groups may seem disparate and unconnected, those at the core of online activism say all these organisations, plus relatively mainstream movements such as Occupy and the Pirate Party, are linked.John Perry Barlow, lyricist for the Grateful Dead and co-founder of the well-known advocacy group Electronic Frontiers Foundation (EFF), says the over-arching motivation of such efforts, whatever tactics are used, was to shift the nature of society."What unites these groups is the belief that the future is not about vertical, hierarchical government, but horizontal [peer-to-peer] government," he said. "This pits the forces of the information age against those of the industrial age, as we move from scarcity of information to abundance. The last year has established our ability to have revolutions, but not to govern in their wake – but that's coming."Different groups are on a spectrum. Organisations like the EFF would be on the conservative end. Along the way is WikiLeaks and the Pirate party, with Anonymous at the more radical end."Though ties between the groups are often tenuous, a broadly shared ideology of a libertarian distrust of government, belief in networks of free citizens, mistrust of copyright and intellectual property laws, and a drive for self-determination appear to unite the hacktivist fringe of the internet.Barlow believes the US government has started aggressively pursuing political hackers such as Anonymous and Lulzsec. The groups mounted attacks taking US and UK government websites offline, targeted News International, allegedly taking a tranche of emails belong to staff of the Sun, and took the full email archives of US intelligence firm Stratfor and passed them to WikiLeaks."The government targets Anonymous for the same reason it targets al-Qaida – because they're the enemy. And in a way, they are. The shit is starting to hit the fan, but we haven't started to see the effects of that yet. The internet is the most liberating tool for humanity ever invented, and also the best for surveillance. It's not one or the other. It's both."Barlow is working on a system to oppose the financial blockade imposed against WikiLeaks. In the wake of WikiLeaks' publication of US diplomatic cables, Senator Joe Lieberman called on US companies to cut off the site. Payment providers Visa, Mastercard and Paypal acceded to the request, despite no order or request coming from government, starving the site of funding.Barlow is planning the establishment of a foundation aimed at funding any organisations affected by corporate blockades with first amendment implications."We hope it makes a moral argument against these sorts of actions," he says. "But it could also be the basis of a legal challenge. We now have private organisations with the ability to stifle free expression. These companies have no bill of rights that applies to their action – they only have terms of service."As a result, battles over the future of the internet are becoming increasingly politicised as opposing sides try to set the legal framework. A huge network of grassroots organisations coalesced in the US to fight the stop online piracy act (Sopa). The bill was eventually stopped in its tracks as opposition mounted, but similar efforts in the EU and elsewhere have had more success proceeding through the legislature.On other fronts, cyber-surveillance is increasing, with the UK government proposing a law to allow the monitoring of information on emails, social network and Skype traffic on all users in real-time. To fight such efforts, hacktivists are getting political.The best known movement of this sort is the Pirate party, which was founded in Sweden by Rickard Falkvinge in 2006 and is marginal in the UK but is building up substantial influence across the world. The party has two MEPs in the European parliament, and recently took 7.4% of the vote in recent elections in the Saarland region of Germany – and according to recent polls it is now the third biggest in the country.The party has even briefly had a cabinet minister, Slim Amamou, a Tunisian activist who served as sports and youth minister in his country for a brief period last year before resigning in protest over web censorship imposed by Tunisia's army.Amelia Andersdotter, one of the party's two MEPs, thinks authorities tend to ignore the political element of hacking attacks by groups such as Anonymous."Some of these hacking attacks are misconstrued. Many are clearly politically targeted, attempts to register protest at something a government or organisation is doing," she says. "There is a lack of understanding in cyber-security. Things are seen as big and intimidating when they are often not."Suddenly, denial of service attacks [an attack which floods a site with fake traffic, preventing people visiting] which used to be legal in many member states, are being prosecuted. Most of these used to be for bad reasons, attacks by rivals, but now more than half are political and there are more prosecutions."Andersdotter's priorities are looking into how public authorities' security efforts are regulated and held to account, attempting to reform the EU's intellectual property laws, and helping to spread fibre internet – faster broadband speeds – across the EU.Others aren't content merely to lobby politicians for a free internet. Instead, they have built tools designed to make regulating the internet an impossible task. One of the most widely used is Tor, short for "the onion router".Tor, when used properly, anonymises all internet traffic coming from a machine by bouncing it around dozens of other computers around the world, taking a different path each time. This means an individual will only be identifiable when he or she chooses to log into a given site.The system is not infallible, as it can be blocked – temporarily – by authoritarian governments, but provides a huge degree of protection, whether to activists working in oppressive regimes, or to those using the internet to smuggle drugs or share child pornography.This dilemma has not gone unnoticed by the people behind the tools."Criminals will always be opportunists and will see new prospects before everyone else does," says the Tor project's executive director, Andrew Lewman. "Old-fashioned police work still works incredibly well against such people. Almost every transaction in the UK uses EFT [card payment], there is CCTV on every street, and monitoring of online communications – but you still have trafficking and other crimes."The benefits of the open internet work much the same as motorways or interstates: they outweigh the costs. In the US, police opposed the building of interstate roads, saying they would help criminals circumvent the law. But the police adapted, and the benefits of highways clearly outweigh the costs."Lewman says the main motivating factor behind the Tor project is not to overthrow government, or even to engage in activism, but rather to give users control over how they use the internet and who is able to monitor their activity. But he is not surprised that governments are trying to regulate the internet."Governments are starting to realise a growing share of their GDP depends on the internet. Government like stability, not rapidly shifting ground," he concludes.But government could be circumvented entirely, as coders haven't only been building ways of circumventing legal oversight: they have built a whole new stateless currency from the ground up.The currency is known as Bitcoin, and relies on a series of mathematical algorithms to govern the amount of money in circulation and the future inflation rate. Each Bitcoin has a unique ID and transactions are recorded in public ledgers, making fraud far more difficult than most real-world currencies – but as Bitcoins aren't backed by a government, if they're stolen, they're gone forever, as some early adopters found out to their cost.At the time of writing, there are more than 8.7m Bitcoins in existence, worth a total of around $42.3m (£26.2m). The combination of a stateless currency and untraceable internet use is a powerful one, as one underground site highlights.The Silk Road is a website only accessible in the "dark" section of Tor, meaning it can't be viewed or traced on the general internet, and accepts only Bitcoins for payment. The site allows the buying and selling of illegal drugs, predominantly in the US, UK and Netherlands.Its existence isn't a secret. In 2011 two senators wrote to the US attorney general asking for action to be taken against the site, which was described as a "one-stop shop for illegal drugs that represents the most brazen attempt to peddle drugs online that we have ever seen".Action against the site, which operates in a similar manner to eBay, linking independent buyers and sellers, has so far proved impossible, and the publicity generated for the Silk Road only boosted its – and Bitcoin's – popularity.Promoting such enterprises is not, though, the driving motivation for most of the people behind the development of Bitcoin.One core member of Bitcoin's development team, Amir Taaki, explains the broad motivations of the hacktivist movement from a "hackspace" in east London – a loose members' club designed to let people build, code and tinker as they wish. Even the space's door is customised: it's tailored to open when members pass their Oyster card or similar radio-frequency ID nearby, and then plays a customised greeting (one has chosen the victory theme from Final Fantasy VII, a cult 90s videogame).The first principle of hacker culture, Taaki says that "all authority should be questioned". He stresses this doesn't mean governments or police are necessarily corrupt, or aren't needed, but that the public should always be in a position to hold such authorities to account.This leads to the second core principle: information should, generally speaking, be free. Copyright laws, patents, government secrecy and more are a huge target for the movement.What this would mean for industries such as pharmaceuticals, where a pill may cost pennies to make but millions to research is unclear, though – and Taaki doesn't have the answers. What he does raise is a challenge. To date, it's the entertainment industries – Hollywood, music, television and publishers – that have felt the effects of piracy and filesharing. Developments in technology mean that may not remain the case for long.Devices known as 3D printers are able to create real-life objects based on three-dimensional plans. The technology is expensive: a cheap commercial machine costs upwards of £10,000, but a build-it-yourself open source version has already been conceived. The RepRap can be built for just over £300. Intriguingly, a RepRap can currently produce around half the parts needed to make another one. Given enough time, the devices will likely be able to print out the parts to make a whole new 3D printer – a self-replicating machine.It's a technology with impressive potential, the ability to "print" virtually any item that can be conceived – tools, toys, even food – but the applications to date are fairly basic, and costly. At present, the printers can mainly make novelty items – though early, successful attempts to clone plastic Warhammer toys led to lawsuits and a predictable backlash.A technology that could allow anyone to manufacture any item, given the right blueprints, heralds a huge storm for any company relying on old-world business models – and today's hackers know it."The battle between pirates and the music or film industries is really nothing, it's a warm-up," Taaki says. "When this technology matures, manufacturers, agriculture businesses, technology firms, any of this could be easily replicated by almost anyone, anywhere. That's when we'll see the real fight – and they don't even see it coming."
High-profile US supporters of WikiLeaks are planning to establish a foundation to break the 500-day "banking blockade" that has disrupted donations to the whistleblowing website.WikiLeaks was forced tosuspend many of its publishing operations in Octoberlast year after Visa, MasterCard and PayPal refused to process supporters' donations to the website, reducing its donation income by about 95%.The move, which came after the US senator Joe Lieberman called on US companies to cut off services to WikiLeaks, was called a blockade by the organisation's editor-in-chief, Julian Assange, and came without any legal orders or actions against the site.Supporters based in the US are now in talks with Assange to establish a US-based foundation aimed at funding organisations cut off by private companies in situations withfirst amendment implications.At the forefront of the efforts are Daniel Ellsberg, the manwho leaked the Pentagon Papersto the US media, and John Perry Barlow, the former lyricist for the Grateful Dead and co-founder of the US online rights organisationElectronic Frontier Foundation(EFF).Barlow said: "The foundation will aim to support WikiLeaks and others, like bloggers, who have been targeted by such blockades. We hope this will make a moral argument that will change these companies' minds, but it could also be the basis of legal challenges."A US-based foundation would be in a stronger position to make challenges based around the US first amendment – which covers, among other provisions, freedom of speech and freedom of the press – than WikiLeaks' current major funder, the Wau Holland Foundation, which is based in Germany.Barlow also warned about the growing power of private organisations in the internet era, saying that protections which restricted governments often did not cover private-sector censorship."We now have organisations with the ability to stifle free expression with no bill of rights that applies to them – just terms of service," he said. "The EFF have investigated everything we can think of [against this], and all we can find is anti-trust law, and we're not nearly rich enough for that kind of action."WikiLeaks says its supporters have initiated legal action against the payment companies in several jurisdictions around the world.In a statement released on Tuesday to mark 500 days since its online payments were cut off, it said complaints had been lodged with Swedish competition authorities, the European commission, through the Colombian courts system, and the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission.The company that processed payments for WikiLeaks, the Icelandic firm DataCell, has also filed a lawsuit against Visa in Reykjavik district court.WikiLeaks strongly condemned the "extrajudicial" action."Five hundred days have passed since a cartel of the world's largest financial players, Bank of America, Visa, MasterCard, PayPal and Western Union instituted a consolidated, extrajudicial financial blockade against WikiLeaks," it said."The financial blockade was imposed at a point at which the public wished to express its support unequivocally through millions of dollars in small donations. The blockade cuts WikiLeaks off from its small donors, the vast majority of our donor base. The financial cartel has so far acted with impunity in an attempt to censor WikiLeaks and curtail our supporters' economic rights."All of the payment providers have denied any political involvement in their decision to cut off payments to WikiLeaks and have said in previous statements that their actions were aimed at preventing illegal activity."MasterCard rules prohibit customers from directly or indirectly engaging in or facilitating any action that is illegal," said a MasterCard spokesman.The Visa statement on its action said: "Visa Europe has taken action to suspend Visa payment acceptance on WikiLeaks' website pending further investigation into the nature of its business and whether it contravenes Visa operating rules."Through an error, Visa payment was briefly reinstated to WikiLeaks in July 2011, but this was quickly cut off.
One of the most depressing things about the inexorable demise of the PC is that some game genres face extinction along with it. Consoles and handhelds have always struggled to cope with large maps and selecting multiple units, and effectively that's all there is to playing real-time strategy games. However, they remain my favourite single-player experience and a genuine multi-player alternative to Call of Duty or World of Warcraft.So it's nice to see the old RTS forces rallying for one final hurrah. This spring is filling up with great strategy games – played out by land, sea and air ...Oil Rush – (out now – PC/£9.99)Tower defence games are usually seen as some kind of bastard cousin to the RTS, but we haven't seen it attempted on this scale since the Bitmaps' brilliantZ.Oil Rushis all about grabbing and defending territory but much of the actual combat is on rails. You can upgrade your tower defences but you're limited to where you can place them, you can send your forces off to battle – but how they fight is up to them. It makes every level a mad rush to secure factories and the rigs that supply them with precious oil, with battles hinging on knowing precisely when to stand your ground and when to push forward.There are problems with this hybrid, not least losing the ability to make impulse decisions. Say you've just sent your forces off to another location only to spot a surprise attack forming behind you. Can you simply turn around and defend? No, you have to trek halfway across the map and come all the way back again, by which time your base has fallen. However, the AI works well in combat and there's loads of upgrades to your units and towers – which the game delivers in a steady trickle from start to finish. The sight of fully upgraded weapons mounting a defence is impressive enough but attacks are even better, with a single press of the F key switching to a dynamic camera that creates a brilliant sensation of following your forces into battle.For those who enjoy tank rushing more than micromanagement, Oil Rush is an RTS bargain.Crusader Kings II(out now – PC/£19.99)This game has no guidance whatsoever. This a bit likeCivilizationbut with deeper diplomatic roots – and boy, do I mean deep.You see, in this game dominance is not just decided by nation v nation, it's every little province, every scheming baron and every family tree whose loyalty and ambition must be micro-managed through threat, bribery, marriage and blackmail. Every race is different, with wildly different social pressures to consider. In fact, combat itself is something of a disappointment, but that's not really what you're playing this for – it's the intrigues and ambitions behind it. Games are slow, protracted affairs, but hugely satisfying when your empire grows as a result of your own attention to detail and forethought.However, Crusader Kings II but does itself no favours with a steep learning curve, unhelpful manual and lack of decent playable tutorials. With so many static menus to plough through, it makes for a game that is hard to love and even harder to master. But for those who find normal RTSs too simplistic, this is one epic challenge that hardcore strategy fans will love.Sins of a Solar Empire: Rebellion (out 12 June – PC/£24.99)Finally,here's oneto look out for. If you missed the original Sins, it was a thing of  majesty. Remember the old deep space classics such asPrivateer 2,Freelancerand (whisper that name in awe)Elite? Well Sins was made from the same mould. Huge battles, dozens of star systems to explore, games that lasted hours and hundreds of small but beautiful ships firing lasers at each other. Rebellion uses a tweaked version of the same engine, continuing the developers' policy of refining rather than reinventing. However, there's two new factions, Loyalist or Rebel, each with very different tactics. Rebels, for instance, can booby-trap whole planets, a feature that will surely transform multiplayer tactics. Naturally, there's also loads of new ships including a brand new Titan-class mega-ship that can decimate whole fleets on its own. SSE: Rebellion has just gone into Beta testing and I'm bagsying the review right now!So, that's just three quality RTSs worth looking out for and we haven't even got to the likes ofStarcraft 2: Heart of the Swarm(look out for a preview as soon as I can get my hands on it!) In short, if you love this genre and don't want to see it turn into the same homogenised, console-friendly chowder that increasingly passes for an FPS, now's the time to come out an show support for real-time strategy. If not, get ready to miss them when they're gone ...
A selection of 17 new apps for you today:The Pirates! Band of Misfits Movie StorybookAardman's new animated film is receiving rave reviews, and now it's got an official storybook app for iOS by Zuuka. It includes audio from the film's star Hugh Grant, as well as a "Piratize Yourself" feature to put children's faces in the picture.iPhone / iPadSid Meier's Pirates!There must be something in the water (landlubbers, most likely), as two big pirate apps have made their debut on the same day. Sid Meier's Pirates is already available on iPad – an update on a game that's been popular since the days of the C64 computer. Sail the Caribbean, battle ships and capture infamous pirates.iPhoneGoodGood Technology has released its Good for Enterprise app for Windows Phones, although it warns that it can't be used without the necessary back-end software run by your IT department. It includes secure corporate email, calendar and contacts, with the idea of separating all this from your personal data on the handset.Windows PhoneFragile EarthPublisher Collins has teamed up with developer Aimer Media to release this photography app, offering shots from around the world showing the effects of climate change, urbanisation and natural phenomena.iPhone / iPadThe Scouts: Secret Island AdventurePut aside any stereotype ideas about Scouts that you might have: the global youth organisation is on the App Store and Google Play with a game based around kayaking, hang gliding and mountain boarding. Well, that and exploring an island practising virtual skills that Scouts learn in the real world.Android / iPhone / iPadVoice AnswerThe latest iOS app looking to take on Apple's own Siri is Voice Answer. The idea is the same: you ask it a question by speaking, and it tries to answer, including drawing on data from Apple's partner Wolfram Alpha.iPhone / iPadKinomap TrainerHere's an interesting spin on fitness apps: Kinomap Trainer provides videos of real-life cycling, rowing and running for you to exercise to, following the rhythm of the original video. It requires an ANT+ receiver and sensors to work, since they collect data from your exercise kit in the real world and transfer it to the app.iPhone / iPadIllusia 2Gamevil has released a sequel to its inventive "casual platform action RPG" Illusia, with new modes including asynchronous player-versus-player, as you kit your character out with costumes, weapons and skills.iPhone / iPadSouth Park - Who Wants To Be A Millionaire?Two famous TV brands, together at last! This splices the Who Wants To Be A Millionaire? format together with characters and questions from South Park, with 500 questions from all 15 series of the show. Phoning a friend dials up some of the show's most famous characters, including Death.iPhone / iPadShaun the Sheep – Fleece LightningAardman is having a big week on the App Store: its Shaun the Sheep character has a new iOS game, published by Chillingo. It sees you running races against Shaun's pig rivals, complete with a level editor to make your own tracks.iPhone / iPadShopaholic WorldSpil Games' Shopaholic titles have apparently been played more than 100m times online. Now the series has transferred to iOS with Shopaholic World, aimed squarely at young girls. The gameplay involves completing challenges and earning items to dress up your avatar.iPhone / iPadThe Island: CastawayThis is the latest mobile game to take desert-island castaways as its plot, as you learn to fish and hunt, while exploring a mysterious island. The link above is for Android, buthere's the iOS version.Android / iPhone / iPadHotels.comHotels.com's travel app has made the jump to Windows Phone, with more than 140,000 hotels available to book, and a Tonight's Local Deals feature to offer daily deals on places to stay.Windows PhoneComputeractive Guide to the iPadA guide to using the iPad, designed to be used on the iPad itself? It sounds very meta, but if you're buying a tablet for, say, a grandparent, this might be a good app to preload before handing it over. Incisive Media's app includes step-by-step guides and app reviews.iPadShark DashGameloft is hoping to make a splash with its new physics-puzzler Shark Dash, which offers 96 levels and four bath toys to control.Android / iPhone / iPadPitchMePitchMe looks like being a valuable tool for singers and musicians, helping them check their pitch and tuning on the go. It claims to be the "one and only direct pitch to staff tuning and staff to pitch tone playing app in the market".iPhone / iPadScreenfeederA social networking app that only displays one tweet, Instagram pic or Foursquare check-in at a time? Screenfeeder looks attractive, but its usefulness may be in question. The ability to subscribe to a hashtag then stream the app to a TV may come in handy at conferences, though.iPhone / iPad
When EA rebooted its Medal of Honor franchise in 2010, plenty of industry sceptics predicted failure for the gritty modern world shooter – especially with Call of Duty: Black Ops to compete against. But the title went on to shift 5m copies, as well as garnering decent reviews, especially for its compelling multiplayer. It was a healthy enough performance to guarantee another instalment.Medal of Honor: Warfighter is very much a continuation of the earnest, naturalistic action we saw in its predecessor. Once again we're following a crack squad of Tier 1 operatives – the chaps who work in small teams, on covert missions against very specific enemy targets. Members of the MoH team are back including Voodoo, Mother and Preacher, but this time they're in a new unit, operating on a global basis. This is the first title in the series to feature a whole range of conflicts rather than focusing on one specific action.The level EA shows us is set in the Philippines, where real-life Islamic separatist group Abu Sayyaf has taken several aid workers hostage. Our small group of Tier 1 operatives touches down in the flooded Isabela City after a major typhoon, and has to infiltrate a partially submerged hotel. What follows is standard military shooter fare – clearing vast rooms of enemy soldiers, ducking behind furniture, and having orders yelled at you by NPCs.The visual detail is astonishing. Running on a hefty-looking PC, the game has shards of wood splintering from furniture and walls as bullets spray. Moving through the hotel, shafts of light pour in from glass ceiling domes then play on the surface of the flood water, which ripples convincingly. The game uses EA Dice's Frostbite 2 engine to highly impressive and envelope-pushing effect.When we reach the room where the captives are being held, we get a familiar door breach then slow-mo shoot-out sequence. The difference here is that developer Danger Close has added a breach options screen allowing you to choose from different grenades to chuck in and various door bashing methods. It's a small addition, but one that the team has included thanks to close consultation with more than 30 Tier 1 operatives from spec ops units around the world. The studio also has its own in-house advisor, Tyler Grey, a spec-ops veteran, wounded and retired in 2007, after 10 years serving in Iraq and Afghanistan.As for the scenarios featured in the game, it seems Danger Close spent a while, studying key hot spots around the world."We just looked at what was in the news," says creative director Rich Farrelly. "You don't have to look too deeply into world affairs — just watch the BBC or any other respected news agency and you start to see where the trouble spots are; you get a hint of where the kinds of people we depict are operating."A few months ago a bunch of Navy Seals landed in Somalia and rescued a Danish aid worker. We also know that a month ago Abu Sayyaf injured 27 soldiers with an IED in Basilan. This game features a bunch of events tied together to form a single threat."It's a new type of warfare – the enemy are non-state actors, they can go wherever they want, and operate in different parts of the world. So this new breed of Tier 1 operators, these special forces guys, have to be able to go to where the threat is."It's clear Danger Close has gone to painstaking efforts to ensure authenticity. There are even sub-plots where soldiers have to deal with phone calls from home; wives talking about their fear and frustration."We started getting into this with the guys," says Farrelly. "They said this was a really tough thing to go through – and everybody deals with it in a different way."But of course, there is always the controversy attached to setting violent games within contemporary real-world settings. Aid workers, soldiers and civilians have died in these conflicts, they are still dying. Is it right to set a high-octane shooter within these situations? Is it hard to get the balance right?"It's very hard, but it's a challenge we accept readily and whole-heartedly," says Farrelly. "It fits with the core tenets of our brand which is commitment to authenticity and respect for the soldier. We want to tell the soldier's story from the soldier's point of view. Those are the rules we work by. Everything we do is applied to that razor. But yes, that has its pitfalls."Apparently, having Tyler in the office has been helpful, just in terms of capturing the minutiae of the Tier 1 life . "He tells us that you sleep whenever you can sleep. Even here, when we rolled up to the demo this morning, he lined up four chairs and had a half-hour kip before we started – he knew he'd have to be on all day long."He told me I can sleep anywhere – he can sleep sitting up in a truck. That's the thing, it's not about how far I can throw a grenade or how cool a machine gun is, it's real-life stuff that we've tried to capture in the game as well … just being cold, wet, tired and hungry."Farrelly also told me the team is looking to lengthen the campaign mode, which could be finished in around five hours in the 2010 Medal of Honor title."Every game maker wants their experience to be as long as it can be. We won't compromise on visual quality and the Frostbite 2 engine is demanding in terms of what it can do – we want to push it. But yes, we're striving to make it longer than the last one."As far as multiplayer goes, EA isn't revealing much apart from the fact that players will be able to choose from a selection of 12 Tier 1 units operating out of 10 different countries. Navy Seals, SAS and KSK are all present, complete with authentic weapons and uniforms and can be pitted against each other.The question for me is whether Danger Close will ever be able to portray its obvious respect for these Tier 1 operatives through a mainstream first-person shooter. Our demo, which culminates in the soldiers and hostages escaping via speed boats before being winched to military choppers and airlifted out, has all the hallmarks of typical military blaster, with its elaborately staged shoot-outs against multiple (apparently non-too-smart) enemies. It is tense, the choreography is exciting, the weapon sounds thuddingly real. But is this authentic? What does that even mean in this context?"I think fun is the primary concern," says Farrelly as his demo ends. "Authenticity has to fit in with that. If you try to do it the other way around you will fail."• Medal of Honor: Warfighter is released on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 in October 2012
About 23 years ago, Will Wright and his team at Maxis software changed the course and meaning of video game design forever. They did it with Sim City, a brilliant urban sandbox simulator, which allowed players to construct their own functioning cityscapes, complete with economic, social and infrastructural challenges – and the odd natural disaster. The series has now seen four major instalments and sold many millions of copies. And now it is back, refreshed from the foundations up and ready to engross us once again.Developed by many of the original team at Maxis, Sim City is built around the entirely new GlassBox Game Engine. Apparently, the name comes from the transparency of the system – for the first time, every pedestrian, every car and every building in the game is an agent, reporting in to the main simulation. This means players will able to work out by sight – rather than countless tables and menu screens – why their beloved utopia is quickly festering into an urban hellhole."Ocean Quigley, our creative director and Andrew Willmott, our lead architect, were both working on Sim City 4 and the technology just wasn't there to support the massive simulation and the graphics they wanted," explains producer Jason Haber. "Now they're finally at the point they can make that game. We like to say, 'you see it, we sim it' – everything you see in the game is actually simulated."Forget the simulation at the moment, and appreciate the sheer visual appeal. Inspired by the YouTube phenomenon of Tiltshift, in which real-life cities are made to look like miniature representations, the world in Sim City has a slight scale model look to it – not cute exactly, but definitely bright and stylised. Teeny pedestrians wander the streets, each with their own specific goals and destinations; every car on the road is inhabited by actual sim drivers and sim passengers.The very construction of the city is personalised in this way. Drag and drop a residential zone onto the map, and tiny trucks will turn up, filled with workers ready to build houses. When they've finished, For Sale signs go up and people move in. Build a power station and workers have to move in to start chucking the huge piles of coal onto the conveyor belt into the building. Everything is visible, everything works. Well, that's if all is going well.To spot problems, the game allows players to place a number of different analysis layers over their map. Choose electricity for example, and red lines running along the roads through a neighbourhood means that this area has no power. Similarly, if you want to place a fire station on the map, choosing the fire layer will show which areas will be covered and which won't depending on where the station is positioned. From here, you can either build new utilities or upgrade the ones you have, perhaps fitting your fire station with a bell to offer sims an early warning, or ram an advanced coal generator onto the side of your power station for extra oomph (and also extra pollution, of course).There are visual cues about the welfare of your inhabitants, too. Switch on the happiness layer and each house gets a little emoticon, revealing the mood across the town. If things are really bad you just have to pan to city hall where you'll find protesters marching about outside with placards. Again, it's all about immediate feedback, doing away with the whole notion of tables and pop-up windows.Elsewhere, there will be natural disasters, just like all Sim City titles, but EA isn't saying what. Maxis has revealed however that you'll get specialist NPCs coming in to town to instigate certain events. In our demo, we see a car with flames down the side, driving into town playing loud heavy metal. A shifty looking character gets out in front of an apartment building, and then next thing we hear is fuel sloshing about and a match being lit – hey presto, instead inferno for your fire department to deal with.A key new feature, however, will be the multiplayer functionality. Groups of online players are able to build their cities in parallel with each other, creating whole Sim Regions. Cities within these conurbations will then need to compete for resources, but will also be able to co-operate, sharing workforces as well as good produced in their respective industrial sectors. There have been features a little like this in previous Sim City titles, but there's apparently much more connectivity with the latest version."Everything you do influences other people in the region and the world as a whole," says Haber. "You can compete with each other, finding out who has the most income or the biggest population, but at the same time you need to work together as a region. There's a balance there. But we'll be explaining more at E3."It will also be possible for lone participants to take over and run a whole region by themselves, building an enormous mega city, far larger than the 2000m x 2000m allowed for single towns. "I'm not going to say that's crazy, but ... it would be a lot of work," says Farley. "It would be a really interesting way to play the game actually. I'm sure one of our QA guys will try it!"• Sim City is due out on PC in 2013
A Google engineer, testifying in a high-stakes trial pitting business software company Oracle against search giant Google, denied that he referred to Oracle or any other company when he wrote in an email that Google should take a licence to use the Java programming language.Another Google engineer specialising in the Java programming language said that he had copied from Java code into the Android system, and suggested that software interfaces known as APIs are designed – which, with Oracle trying to prove that they can be copyrighted, might be an important piece of evidence.The trial entered its fourth day on Thursday, with Google engineer Timothy Lindholm – author of a key email whose admissibility the two sides fought over bitterly during the pre-trial phase – taking the stand to answer questions. The focus was on an email written in 2010 that has become a critical piece of evidence in the case.Oracle sued Google in August 2010, saying Google's Android mobile operating system infringes its copyrights and patents for the Java programming language. Google countered that it does not violate Oracle's patents and that Oracle cannot copyright certain parts of Java, an "open-source," or publicly available, software language.During opening statements, an Oracle attorney displayed several Google emails to the jury, calling them prime evidence that Google took its intellectual property.One of them involved Lindholm, a former Sun Microsystems employee who began work at Google in 2005. Shortly before Oracle sued Google in 2010, Lindholm wrote an email to Android chief Andy Rubin, saying he had been asked by top Google executives to investigate technical alternatives to Java for Android."We've been over a bunch of these, and think they all suck," Lindholm wrote. "We conclude that we need to negotiate a license for Java under the terms we need."In court on Thursday, Lindholm acknowledged that he wrote the email. However, he told Oracle attorney David Boies that in the phrases used he was not referring to a license from Sun. "It was not specifically a licence from anybody," Lindholm said.Lindholm was also asked about the importance of APIs – application programming interfaces – which Oracle says are covered by copyright."As a software engineer, not a lawyer, it's always been my understanding the organisation of software APIs are free for use by other people," he said.He then told Google attorney Christa Anderson during cross-examination that he understood the software over which Oracle is claiming copyright to be free for use by other people.Earlier in the day, Google engineer Josh Bloch admitted to Oracle's lawyer that he had copied some Java code into Android while at Google. He also said that API design is a noble and rewarding craft - a statement that may become critical with Oracle attempting to prove that APIs attract copyright.Early in the case, estimates of potential damages against Google ran as high as $6.1bn. But the company has narrowed Oracle's claims to only two patents from seven originally, reducing the possible award. Oracle is seeking roughly $1bn in copyright damages.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamVerizon: Half of our first-quarter smartphone sales were iPhones &gt;&gt; AllThingsDApple's iPhone continues to sell well at Verizon, though not quite as well as last quarter. Reporting first-quarter earnings largely in line with expectations this morning, Verizon said it sold 6.3m smartphones. Of those, 3.2m were iPhones.This is quite surprising, isn't it? What would be really useful would be knowing what proportion of smartphone sales go to new customers, and what proportion are purchases by existing smartphone users (and of what platform). Also: Verizon sold 2.1m LTE-enabled smartphones, 1m less than the still-3G iPhone.ISPs Have to Identify Alleged Pirates, EU Court Rules &gt;&gt; TorrentFreakA dispute over whether a Swedish ISP can be forced to hand over the details of one its subscribers to an anti-piracy group has just received its long-awaited ruling from the Europe's highest court. A few moments ago the European Court of Justice announced that there are no EU barriers which prevent the ISP handing over its customers' private details to copyright holders.My comments on Windows Phone - Life as a Developer Evangelist &gt;&gt; MSDN BlogsNuno Silva:I recently participated in an interview with the Portuguese website Zwame, where I made some comments on the future of Windows Phone that created confusion. Rumors are swirling, so I feel the need to clarify my statements.The point I was attempting to make was simply that existing Windows Phone applications will run on the next version of Windows Phone. This is the same guidance that Microsoft shared late last year.I mistakenly confused app compatibility with phone updateability, which caused the rumors we saw yesterday.  I did not intend to give the impression I was offering new guidance on any products under development or their upgradeability.Microsoft is being cagey about whether current phones running Windows Phone 7 or Windows Phone 7.5 will be able to run Windows Phone 8 when it comes out later this year. Either it hasn't decided or it doesn't want to break the bad news. More important question: does it matter?The anatomy of Flashfake. Part 1 &gt;&gt; SecurelistHow all those Macs got infected:The partner program was based on script redirects from huge numbers of legitimate websites all over the world. Around the end of February/early March 2012, tens of thousands of sites powered by WordPress were compromised. How this happened is unclear. The main theories are that bloggers were using vulnerable versions of WordPress or they had installed the ToolsPack plugin. Websense put the number of affected sites at 30,000 , while other companies say the figure could be as high as 100,000. Approximately 85% of the compromised blogs are located in the US.Code was injected into the main pages when the blogs were hacked. As a result, when any of the compromised sites were visited, a partner program TDS was contacted. Depending on the operating system and browser version, the browser then performed a hidden redirect to sites in the rr.nu domain zone that had the appropriate set of exploits installed on them to carry out an infection.Apple marketing SVP Phil Schiller dumps Instagram over expansion to Android &gt;&gt; 9to5MacTwitter co-founder Jack Dorsey is not the only photo-loving business executive upset by Instagram in recent weeks. While Dorsey stopped posting photos from his Instagram after Facebook reportedly beat his Twitter to an acquisition of Instagram, Apple Senior Vice President quit his Instagram for another reason: Android.And a week or two later they sold for a billion dollars. Some shark. Some jump.Who Is Tim Lindholm? Google's CEO is wondering that too &gt;&gt; WSJ Digits BlogGoogle has fought to keep the email out of the trial taking place now in San Francisco, to no avail. During his testimony earlier this week, Mr. Page said he couldn't recall the email, or providing such directions to Mr. Lindholm, or even for that matter the identity of Mr. Lindholm.So, who is Tim Lindholm?Likely to be called this week.Does the internet breed killers? &gt;&gt; CNN.comTerrible headline on a more interesting piece by Andrew Keen (described as a "professional sceptic". They never mentioned that at the careers office.) The kernel of this argument is this:Narcissism, of course, wasn't invented by the Internet and it would be absurd to establish a causal connection between self-love and mass murder. That said, however, today's digital media culture - which shatters the 20th century mass audience into billions of 21st century authors and enables them all to broadcast their most intimate thoughts to the world - seems to be making narcissism the default mode of contemporary existence.Supporting copyright is not the same as opposing freedom of speech &gt;&gt; guardian.co.uk(Musician) Helienne Lindvall:I was told to prepare a five-minute speech, so apart from speaking of the reality musicians are facing, I spent days reading the actual [ACTA] agreement, different points of views on it, as well as looking into the different issues it deals with, to make sure I knew what was being discussed. I'd heard from the Pirate Party as well as some other action groups that it would impede freedom of speech so naturally I was concerned - after all, musicians rely on freedom of expression, as do journalists. I was surprised to find that Acta would do nothing of the sort. In fact, it wouldn't change any existent laws in the EU.It soon became clear that my preparations were in vain.Oracle v. Google trial &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsAmidst his analysis of the first days of the Oracle-Google trial, Florian Müller adds:As an independent analyst and blogger, I will express only my own opinions, which cannot be attributed to any one of my diversity of clients. I often say things none of them would agree with. That said, as a believer in transparency I would like to inform you that Oracle has very recently become a consulting client of mine. We intend to work together for the long haul on mostly competition-related topics including, for one example, FRAND licensing terms.We've known each other ever since I vocally opposed Oracle's acquisition of Sun Microsystems (not because of Java), but that's history as I fully respect the European Commission's clearance decision and the subsequent closing of the deal.This will make him even more of a hate figure in Groklaw's comment threads, if that is possible. (People there won't admit to having read his blog, won't link to it, but denounce everything he does.) Müller has reckoned from the start that Google has a copyright infringement case to answer. Groklaw reckons Larry Ellison has a tail and smells of sulphur, and that Google walks on water and smells of roses. Either way, it's up to the jury now.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Microsoft fared better than analysts anticipated in its latest financial quarter, boosted by an unexpected rise in sales of its Windows operating system for PCs.But profits dipped due to unexpected losses in its Entertainment &amp; Devices division, which houses the Xbox 360 games console and also its Windows Phone mobile software groups.Revenues hit a record high of $17.4bn (£10.8bn), up 6% on a year before, but profits fell to $5.1bn (60c a share) from $5.2bn the year before – principally due to a surprising loss of $229m by the E&amp;D division, down from a profit of $210m a year ago.Analyst consensus had expected profits of 58c a share, or $4.93bn, on revenues of $17.2bn.The stock is up 20% so far this year, outpacing the tech-heavy Nasdaq's 16% gain, and a 10% rise in the Standard &amp; Poor's 500. Microsoft shares added 90c, or nearly 3%, to $31.91 in Thursday's extended trading.But it is still below the heady levels of 10 years ago, as investors worry about the company's ability to match Apple and Google in online and mobile technology. Apple's market value is now comfortably twice that of Microsoft, and revenues from its iPhones last quarter exceeded Microsoft's overall revenue.The Bing search engine, which also powers Yahoo's search, continues to be a big lossmaker for the company. Revenues in the Online Services division dropped off by sequential quarter from $784m to $707m, though up 6% in line with overall revenues from the previous year.Profits remain elusive: the division lost $479m, compared to $458m the quarter before – suggesting that hopes of profitability are some way off yet. But compared to the year-ago quarter, losses reduced from $776m.The engines of Microsoft's profit and revenue remain its Windows and Office software, which between them make up 105% of the company's profits – which are then pared back by losses in other divisions – remains strong.Windows revenues in particular rose by nearly 4% to $4.6bn, at a time when sales of Windows PCs have been comparatively sluggish, growing by only about 1.9% in the quarter, according to analysts Gartner."The Windows beat was a positive surprise, looking at about 4% growth, versus expectations for about a 4% decline," said Josh Olson, an analyst at Edward Jones. Microsoft said it had been due to businesses buying licences for Windows 7, its current version of the operating system.Profits from Office, which relies on upgrades especially from corporate customers, remained strong too, jumping 14%."We're driving toward exciting launches across the entire company, while delivering strong financial results," said Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer.One of the quarter's bright spots came in Microsoft's Windows division, which has faltered in the past year as more people bought Apple's iPad and other tablet computers instead of desktop and notebook computers.Analysts also have assumed that many businesses and consumers thinking about buying a PC would hold off until Windows 8 hits the market in the autumn."Next year at this time we should be talking about Windows 8 mobile and how it's contributing or not to the company," said Kim Forrest, analyst at Fort Pitt Capital Group. "But we really need Windows 8 to come out on all devices, to see if it's going to have that synergy or not."The company gave no figures for sales of its Windows Phone mobile software, where Microsoft is partnering strongly with Nokia. Microsoft provided $250m of marketing funds to Nokia during the quarter.
Yey, Friday! What are your gaming plans for the weekend, then?
Acontroversial billaimed at tackling cybercrime has gained support this week even as critics including the Obama administration charge it threatens to overturn privacy protections.The Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act(Cispa)is due to be discussed in the House of Representatives next week. Ahead of that discussion, critics have mounted a concertedeffort to change the bill. And Cispa has now added six more co-sponsors.The additions bring the number of Cispa co-sponsors to 112 members of Congress, up from 106 on March 29.The bill's intention is to make it easier for the US government and private companies to share information about cybersecurity threats. But critics charge the language of the bill is too broadly written and Cispa threatens to give the government carte blanche powers to gather sensitive information from citizens while overriding existing privacy legislation.The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), Electronic Frontier Foundation and other civil rights groups have been campaigning against the bill.Earlier this week, Obama's national security council spokeswoman Caitlin Hayden told The Hill newspaper that any legislation "must include robust safeguards to preserve the privacy and civil liberties of our citizens".Michelle Richardson, legislative counsel with the ACLU said she was not surprised by the level of support the bill had received. "This is consistent with other expansions of government spying and/or information collection programs over the last decade," she said. "We will however continue to fight to make sure meaningful privacy protections are included."Companies including AT&amp;T, Boeing, Microsoft and Time Warner Cable have expressed support for Cispa. Cispa's author, Mike Rogers, the Republican chair of the House intelligence committee, has claimed that Google is backing the bill. The company has not commented.Rogersdismissed privacy criticisms this weekas "like turbulence on the way down to landing" for the bill.
Take a moment to pity the video-game Nazi, for his life is nasty, brutish and short. He is born into this world only to be killed moments later, a newborn convert of a hateful ideology. He fizzes into being, examines his uniform, wonders perhaps why he is holding a rifle and what exactly he is fighting for and, within seconds, takes a bullet in the head. Or the chest. Or is stabbed or strangled or blown up and scattered to the wind like straw.Most often his angel of death is a lone American commando, a man trained since birth for this battle and this battle alone, a man who scoffs at the odds stacked against him. Let us call him, for argument's sake,Jimmy Patterson. He scoffs, in part, because – as the game's hero – he's better, smarter and stronger than the entire military might of the Third Reich. And in part because he knows that, unlike the gruesome demises of his foes, his own death is a temporary setback. When Patterson dies, he returns, regenerated, to a checkpoint just a few minutes earlier, rearmed and ready to begin his assault afresh. Eventually – provided the player sticks with him – the commando will emerge victorious and alive. The video game Nazi will be remembered only as an end-of-level statistic.In fact, I would venture to guess more video game Nazis have died in the past 30 years than there are humans who have ever lived. Billions more. Perhaps trillions. You could lay the bodies head-to-toe in a line from here to the sun and back. The ghosts of the virtual dead are packed so tight in the stone hallways ofCastle Wolfensteinthat it looks like Pac-Man level infinity. A thousand unmarked digital graves litter every square inch of the beaches of Omaha and the train yards, docks and barracks of a hundred occupied territories. Every teenage boy of the last two decades has his100 Nazi scalps.I alone have killed thousands of Nazis. I'm no hero. It's just what a boy with a games console did when I were a lad. I have killed them without a second thought; first in two dimensions in Commandos: Behind Enemy Lines, then in three in theMedal of Honorgames andBattlefield 1942. I have killed them when they rose from the grave as zombies inCall of Duty: World at War, and in Hogs of War when they were cartoon pigs soaring over me with jet packs. Sometimes at night I can still see hear them squealing.It is supply and demand. They die because gamers want to kill them, because there's no enemy as satisfying as an unthinking embodiment of pure, picture-book evil. Meaning every year, without fail, there are half a dozen new games offering a good old-fashioned romp through war-time Germany with nothing but a rifle and a cheeky grin. So it is withSniper Elite V2(PC/PS3/Xbox 360), a reboot of 2005's Sniper Elite, which mixes third-person stealth gaming with sophisticated, hold-your-breath, account-for-the-wind-and-pick-your-moment sniping. You play as American agent Karl Fairburne, out to kill or capture Germany's finest rocket scientists (the only Nazis ever deemed worth keeping alive being the ones who can help us kill other Nazis faster and more efficiently).Of course, every one-man mission through Germany needs its own unique selling point, and inV2that selling point is clearlythe kill-cam. Snipe an enemy from far enough away and the game lurches into cinematic slow-motion as you follow the flight of the bullet over rooftops and courtyards. And then, when it reaches its man, you watch in graphic x-ray as it finds its mark, penetrates flesh and bone, and emerges again from your target's body trailing blood and guts.What made them think we would want to see an x-ray of a Nazi as he dies? Hard to say. Perhaps they figured we've become inured to the thrill of watching a man get shot without an x-ray. Perhaps the makers of V2 held a focus group. Perhaps the group unanimously agreed, nodding and murmuring emphatically, that what they wanted above all else was to see a German soldier literally die inside. I have my own theory: V2's x-ray is a small step towards a little sympathy for the video game Nazi. Yes, they're still being shot in the head. Yes, they're still being massacred by bloodthirsty gamers every day, in every continent. But in V2, for the first time, in the split-seconds before they die, players can helpfully diagnose a cyst for them. I think we owe them that, at least.
Oh, Nokia. The red ink is pouring all over the place. Thefirst-quarter 2012 results(PDF) show that not only did smartphone sales decline (to 11.9m units from 24.2m a year ago, and 19.6m in the previous quarter) but so did mobile phone sales (70.8m, down from 84.3m a year ago, and 93.9m in the typically higher Christmas quarter).Windows Phone is the future for Nokia's smartphone platform; chief executive Stephen Elop says it will become the third ecosystem, alongside Apple's iOS and Google's Android. But if we compare its launch rate - in terms of the number of handsets sold from inception - how does Windows Phone compare with iOS, Android, Samsung's Bada and RIM's BlackBerry?Not too well - though not too badly either as it turns out. There's the graph below, showing units sold (according to the companies and to research group Gartner) from their first quarter on sale. Whether they launched at the precise start of a quarter is immaterial (none of them did - though Apple pushed it closest.)Comparing iPhone (yellow), Android (green), Windows Phone (light blue), Bada (dark blue) and RIM's (dark red) adoption from launchThe comparison is somewhat unfair to RIM. Although it didn't begin giving quarterly handset sales figures for some time into its life, those numbers nevertheless come from back in the quarter ended November 2005, long before the smartphone boom. But equally, the boom was helped by the platforms that presently define it - currently Android and, to a lesser extent, Apple. Arguably, the graph should favour Windows Phone, since it launched during the boom.So what does the graph show? BlackBerry and Samsung's Bada (starting according to Gartner in the second quarter of 2010) both had slow growth.Apple, by contrast, grew rapidly, then slumped - but then took off in its fifth quarter, though it rose and fell. But the path was clear. Android, similarly, grew without halt - so that it's now more than 50% of handset sales worldwide.Compared to those two, Windows Phone - launched in October 2010 - hasn't set the world alight. But it hasn't been a damp squib either. Nokia doesn't appear in those results until the last figure (which is an estimate; based on 2.7m Windows Phone devices sold in 4Q 2011, of which about 1m were Nokia, I estimate 4m for 1Q 2012 on the basis of 2m Lumias sold and about the same number of devices from other companies). That could be an overestimate, but even if it were only 1m by others, it would still be well ahead of the other platforms; though, equally, well behind the two which now dominate.Bust or duck herder?So: is Windows Phone a bust?Well, it hasn't yet started helping Nokia appreciably. But there are some elements which suggest that if Nokia can get its ducks in a row (and chief executive Stephen Elop is duck-herding very aggressively in Espoo, Finland) then it will at least return to healthy profitability.First, the Lumia phones have a higher ASP (average selling price) than the Symbian ones - €220 against the overall ASP for its smartphones of €143. Do the maths, and that means that the Symbian handsets had an ASP of €127.67. So the Lumia 800 and 610 sells for 70% more than Symbian ones. Clearly, the Lumia is better business. Nokia says that the falling profitability of the Smart Devices (smartphones) chunk is "driven primarily by greater price erosion than cost erosion within our Symbian portfolio due to the competitive environment". In other words, Symbian isn't selling, or sells for less.Next, Nokia has the cash, and the marketing help, to get it through - at least when you compare it to RIM, which is also struggling. RIM reported a fall in revenue and handset shipments, and has $1.77bn in cash and short-term equivalents (what you could call "ready cash") at the end of March; Nokia has €4.9bn of net cash. It also has Microsoft pumping in $250m of marketing money for the Lumia range over the past two quarters, with more to come - the sort of tailwind that any struggling company appreciates.Comparing RIM and Nokia, the latter managed to introduce an entirely new operating system on handsets which are the design envy of pretty much everyone who'll admit to it within less than a year of announcing a radical shift. That's not trivial; even if the Lumia range is essentially a repurposed version of the N series Symbian phones, it still involves low-level code, coordination, and lots of design effort.RIM: untimelyBy contrast, RIM has never managed to produce a device ahead of time, and has seen little uplift from the introduction of BB7. And the introduction ofBBXBB10, the next version of the software, was expected by now but has been put back to some later date (though still this year). That will give Nokia about a year's headstart on the shift, in a market that is changing faster than ever.So Nokia may be troubled, but it isn't yet in a death spiral. RIM, on the other hand, is troubled, but hasn't shown what it might do to get out of that situation. And a merger or sale to some other handset company won't work; thereisn't a single instance of a handset company sale leading to success. The closest counter-example is Sony Ericsson, a joint venture born out of Ericsson's struggles, and it worked while featurephones were all there was; but the arrival of the iPhone destroyed it. Sony bought out Ericsson for a billion dollars, but it's unlikely to recoup it.Conclusion: lockdownTo conclude: Android and Apple have a lock on the smartphone market at present: according to figures from Kantar ComTech released this week (and covering the three months to 18 March 2012), Android and the iPhone combined had, in the UK a 79.2% share of smartphone sales (50% Android, 29.2% iPhone); for the US it's 90.9% (46.4% Android, 44.4% iPhone). Those are the two biggest and keenest-fought western markets, and everyone else is reduced to crumbs there.That won't necessarily last; the next 50% of the population is going to shift from smartphones in the next few years, and they won't necessarily make the same choices - or spend as much money on a phone - as the first 50%. With the right incentives, Nokia still has a chance there. Even so, it's almost certain that it won't be the same force in smartphones again that it once was; Samsung is expected too to take its crown as the biggest provider of mobile phones overall.Butsic transit gloria mundi. Expect Apple and Samsung to dominate the smartphone market for now - until the next disruption comes. I suspect that will be wearable computing (which Google is looking at with itsGoogle Glass project). That may introduce a whole new range of names to the communication world. That's the next shift to watch out for.
The co-founder of Russia's leading search engine, Yandex, has accused Google of abusing its dominance to shut out competitors in cyberspace.Responding to comments made to the Guardian by Sergey Brin, the Google co-founder, about threats to the open internet, Ilya Segalovich described the US search giant's popular smartphone platform, Android, as a "strange combination of openness and not openness" and its Chrome web browser as anti-competitive.Segalovich, chief technology officer of the Russian internet company, said that Brin should explain Google's "semi-open" approach to search competitors before accusing others of endangering the unfettered internet.Brin told the Guardian that the future of the open internet was under threat from a coalition of governments, but also from private companies, naming Facebook and Apple. Yandex and Google are direct competitors in Russia, where the Moscow-based company dominates the search market with a 62% share, compared with Google's 25% share.Segalovich suggested Google was guilty of foul play with its Chrome browser, which he said made it difficult for users to choose rival search engines, including Yahoo, Bing and Yandex, over its own market-leading product. He said internet users were effectively coerced into using the Californian internet giant's products over those offered by rivals."Things are definitely going where more and more control is in the hands of platform providers. It's interesting that it's not only mobile, but it's also about browsers," Segalovich said."That is a part of the open and closed issue, in my head. If you own the browser, the browser is the platform then the search is yours. It is the same question … it should be addressed to Sergey himself. He should think about it also. It's a little wider than he described it."Asked whether proprietary products, such as Apple's mobile applications, posed a threat to the open internet, he added: "Definitely there is such a problem. I myself don't like the closed platforms; I think it is important that you have choice."Brin, whose family fled the former Soviet Union,reiterated his warning about the future of the internet in a blogpost on Wednesday. He said that governments, rather than private companies, posed the greatest and most immediate threat to the world wide web.Segalovich downplayed the role of the Russian government in suppressing content on the internet. He said that Moscow was "not making aggressive moves" against internet firms, and added that the government was attempting to be "quite neutral and positive" about cyberspace.He indicated that Yandex, which recently launched internet search and maps in Turkey and opened an office in Switzerland, could be damaged by the "semi-open" nature of Google's Android operating system for smartphones.Phone-makers that have not signed deals to use Android are only able to offer basic applications to their users, Segalovich said."You cannot [send any code] to Android, it's semi-open source. You cannot send anything, just see and watch [how the code is changed by Google] … If you download an application it may not work properly if it's not Android marketplace. So that's an interesting question," he added. "BlackBerry is trying to use Android but it won't be working properly … It's a strange combination of openness and not openness. That's another part of the story."He added: "One of the things about Android which is especially bad for us is if you have the Market [app store] it's the only way to get advanced apps to work properly … But the new remit on Android 4 is if you have this smart kit you have to have search of Google on top of the screen, it's a part of the contract. I don't think it's good. I think it's bad."Segalovich said that Google's overwhelming dominance of the search market in Europe opened the company up to anti-trust issues, but acknowledged that Yandex could also face the same pressure in Russia.The Yandex boss described the criticism of Facebook by Google's Brin as "an American story, like two matadors" that was not replicated in the Russian internet market.
The openness of the web needs to be protected and "digital handcuffs" need to be removed, Neelie Kroes, the vice-president of the European commission with responsibility for Europe's digital agenda,has said.Speaking atthe World Wide Web (WWW2012) conferencein Lyon on Thursday, Kroes examined the idea of an open web and spoke of its benefits. "With a truly open, universal platform, we can deliver choice and competition; innovation and opportunity; freedom and democratic accountability," she said.Holding up a pair of handcuffs sent to her the previous day by the Free Software Foundation along with a letter asking if she was "with them on openness", she said: "Let me show you, these handcuffs are not closed, not locked. I can open them if and when I want. That's what I mean by being open online, what it means to me to get rid of 'digital handcuffs'."In her keynote speech, she stressed the value of an open web, adding that Europe was "only beginning to discover what openness means". The benefits, she said would affect consumers and help boost the economy as well as informing voters. Privacy was another key thought on Kroes' mind, believing that openness should not come at the price of privacy or safety, "When you go online, you aren't stripped of your fundamental right to privacy," she said.The commissioner also spoke strongly about copyrighted material and the complex licensing systems, explaining that "these guarantee that Europeans miss out on great content, they discourage business innovation, and they fail to serve the creative people in whose name they were established."Kroes stressed that people should become more open to online models, allowing creators to make their work accessible but also recognising the price of a product or a service, "Whatever you're producing, whether it's a scientific experiment or a new video mash-up, making it isn't free. It is legitimate and right to reward and recognise creation and innovation.""If we are too rigid or too constraining in our approach, we will put artificial limits on innovation and discovery. And that's not being open." Kroes echoes comments made by web founderSir Tim Berners-Lee who delivered his speech at the event on Wednesday."Human discourse depends on an open internet" said Berners-Lee. "I want you thinking about what you're leaving behind for the next generation after this." He was also present at the panel that followed Kroes's speech and expressed once again his concerns over surveillance of the internet.The WWW2012 event srun until  Friday at the Lyon Convention Centre in France and is aimed at bringing together developers, business, media and analysts.
Before Facebook and Google became the megaliths of the web, the most famous online adage was, "on the internet, no one knows you're a dog". It seems the days when people were allowed to be dogs is coming to a close. The old web, a place where identity could remain separate from real life, is rapidly disappearing from the computer screen. According to Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook's chief operating officer, and Richard Allan, its director of policy in Europe, a critical mass of people only want online interactions supported by "authentic" identity. And this, say critics, will have irrevocable effects on the openness of the web.The pursuit of authenticity is creeping into the heart of most social media models and in the current internet landscape is playing an important role in how we engage with one another and with web content. For many people, Facebook and Google products are the sum total of their web interaction, and the value in creating a platform that provides confidence that a person is who they say they are, rather someone pretending to be them, is critical to a social network's success.Within this model, authentic identity is non-anonymous. Facebook profiles and Google IDs are tied to a person's real name and real connections, and increasingly to their activities across cyberspace. Users are familiar with logging into other services using Facebook or Google IDs, forming a single public identity that's an aggregated version of their offline past, the online present and their combined future.Facebook also believes authenticity is linked to a person's photo stream, which is why it has justpaid $1bn for the photo-sharing service Instagram. "Pictures speak a thousand words," says Allan. "Immigration officials will ask to see a photo album to see if a relationship is genuine. It's a very instinctive and powerful way to confirm authentic identity."Not everyone agrees. "I would not call what you have on Facebook 'authentic' identity," says Christopher Poole, the 24-year-old creator of4Chan, an online community founded in 2004. 4Chan boasts two design features antithetical to Facebook: first, its 20 million users don't register an account to participate and are therefore anonymous; second, there's no archive.Poole, who wasvoted Time's most influential person of 2008– two years before Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg was declared the magazine's Man of the Year – believes Facebook's commercial motivations shut down the online experience: "Mark and Sheryl have gone out and said that identity is authenticity, that you are online who you are offline, and to have multiple identities is lacking in integrity. I think that's nuts.""We went from a web that was interest-driven, and then we transitioned into a web where the connections were in-person, real-life friendship relationships," adds Poole. "Individuals are multifaceted. Identity is prismatic, and communities like 4Chan exist as a holdover from the interest-driven web."Allan believes such attitudes are naive. The millions who have gone online over the past decade want a safe place where they won't experience bad behaviour, have their identities stolen or be duped by impostors, he says: "Pretend identities don't work very well now that the web has moved from a minority sport for geeks to a mainstream occupation."And this attitude is baked into the main players' systems: any profile on Facebook or Google that does not appear to be tied to an offline name is removed. Nicknames and pseudonyms, regardless of their longevity – and some have been in use for decades – are considered breaches of terms of service. What people do online now, and will be doing in the foreseeable future, is inherently tied to their offline selves. And this locks down what it is considered acceptable to do and who it is acceptable to meet.Yet a social network's success need not rely upon this direct link between online and offline identity. In Japan, the three most popular social networks operate under pseudonyms at the discretion of the account holder. "[Japanese social networks are] anonymous, but we can trace past mentions by login ID or nickname," explains Yasutaka Yuno, editor-in-chief of Japan's most popular mobile technology site,K-tai Watch. "The past mentions are useful to judge credibility. In each social community, ID acts as personal name."An online identity can be as permanent as an offline one: pseudonymous users often identify themselves in different social networks using the same account name. But because their handles aren't based on real names, they can deliberately delineate their identity accordingly, and reassert anonymity if they wish. Psychologists argue that this is valuable for the development of a sense of who one is, who one can be, and how one fits into different contexts. This kind of activity is allowed even in countries where social network account holders are required to register for a service using a national ID, as in South Korea and China; their online public identities are still fabrications. Even with this explicit link with the state, when users are aware that their activities online are traceable, identity play continues.Andrew Lewman, executive director ofthe Tor Project, hopes to re-anonymise the web. "The ability to be anonymous is increasingly important because it gives people control, it lets them be creative, it lets them figure out their identity and explore what they want to do, or to research topics that aren't necessarily 'them' and may not want tied to their real name for perpetuity," he says.The Tor browser and software obfuscates a user's web traffic so anyone watching is unable to trace who a user is or where they are coming from, by bouncing an individual's communications through at least three different places. People can still be identifiable on a service like Facebook or Google if they choose to log in, but Tor prevents these sites knowing what users were doing before, and where they go after they log out.This is a technological solution to what Lewman feels is an elemental problem with the de-anonymisation of the web. "The ability to forget, to start over is important," he argues. "Maybe you just got divorced, maybe you just came out of rehab and you want to start over."As soon as you log into a Gmail account, you start getting ads for the drug rehab you want to forget. If you're in a real-name environment, such as Facebook, unless you actually physically change your name and your friends, you're thrown right back into your old life."Although Facebook does allow users to curate what's public and private – "recasting your public persona by selecting from the data you've put onto the service," explains Allan – Lewman believes the automated systems make a total social reinvention difficult to pull off."If you truly wanted to be anonymous, you'd have to use a combination of 4Chan and Tor," explains Poole. Tor provides the back-end anonymity that compliments 4Chan's front-end anonymity. But this is technologically advanced: it is the major players setting the identity agenda. And so the ideological battle over online identity continues."Facebook is setting the expectations of what we want," says Poole. "They set the bar in terms of what kind of control their users have over their identity online. They've been moving that bar slowly but surely in a direction that they might call transparency, but what other people might call lack of choice."Allan believes the benefits of authentic identity outweigh the costs. Facebook and other services with an assurance of security and credibility are more inclusive, and open up the web to new audiences who never would have gone online before, he says. "We're optimists. Facebook enables hundreds of millions of people to express themselves online because they didn't have or know how to use the tools they needed." Facebook, he believes, is a stepping stone to the rest of the web.And if they are successful at promoting their particular brand of authentic identity, if you want to be a dog on the internet in the future, you'll have to have papers to prove it.
When a south London teenager uploaded a series of amateur rap videos to YouTube, he had no reason to believe they would make legal history.But the videos, a vivid account of life "on the road" in Peckham for a young black male, quickly gained millions of views. In one, 18-year-old Matt raps about stabbing, saying: "You're always chatting on, you should feel a piece of the knife, stabbing in your head, stabbing in your chest."Inanother video, teenagers make gestures and call out gang names. It was not long before the authorities took notice: last year Matt became the first person in England and Wales to be banned by law from producing music or videos that encourage violence.Southwark council, which took out the injunction against Matt, believes YouTube has become the "new playground" for gang members. "By all means we want people to use social media, but we do not want you to use it in ways that will incite violence," said Jonathan Toy, Southwark council's head of community safety. "This remains a big issue for us and without some form of censorship purely focusing on [violent videos], I'm not sure how we can address it."Julia Farrington, head of arts at Index on Censorship, argues that extra powers to ban violent videos online will "end up too broad and open to misapplication, which would damage freedom of expression".But the purported rise in violent videos online has led some MPs to campaign for courts to have more power to remove or block material on YouTube. The Labour MP Heidi Alexander said she was appalled after a constituent was robbed at knifepoint, and the attackers could be found brandishing weapons and rapping about gang violence online.Thousands of violent videos are still available on the internet, according to Alexander, who claims they lead to an escalation in offline tensions between rival gangs. "I believe some young people are losing their lives as result of this material on the internet," she said.She maintains that the internet should face similar curbs to TV because young people are increasingly living online. "It's totally different, someone at Google watching the video from the comfort of their office in San Francisco to someone from a council house in London, where this video is happening right outside their front door."Alexander says she has been accused of censorship "worse than a Syrian dictator" over her quest to have gang-related videos taken down. But her campaign shows the debate over a completely unfettered internet is not clear-cut.The shift in the balance of power online has allowed anyone to publish to the world, from dispirited teenagers in south London to an anonymous cyber-dissident in a Middle East autocracy.In Saudi Arabia, one of the most conservative societies, one online rebel has rocked the Islamic establishment with tweeted allegations of corruption within the ruling royal family."Mujtahidd" has attracted almost 300,000 followers since the end of last year, when he began posting scandalous claims about the Saudi elite. In one tweet, Mujtahidd directly challenged Prince Abdul Aziz Bin Fahd about his political history: "Did you resign or were you forced to resign from your post as head of the diwan [office] of the council of ministers?"The online rebel later threatened to expose alleged hypocrisy by some members of the royal family over the kingdom's housing shortage. "One of the owners of vast tracts of land has close to 500m square metres!! … Everybody knows this," railed Mujtahidd in a swipe at another Saudi prince.Speaking to the Guardian on condition of anonymity, the person behind the Mujtahidd Twitter account said he would be arrested if the authorities were able to track him down. He said he aimed to "make people aware that they are fooled by [a] very efficient deception campaign" and that the anger of young Saudis was "on the verge of explosion"."I keep myself anonymous not only for security but for other reasons," he said in an email. "In our society people are less biased and more ready to believe sensitive information when they see it bare and not linked to a known person. They are also more ready to interact and redistribute the information when the source is anonymous because of the sensitivity."Mujtahidd's online claims have prompted an aggressive backlash against social media from the Saudi religious establishment. The grand mufti of Saudi Arabia, Sheikh Abdul-Aziz al-Sheikh, said in January that Twitter was a platform for "promoting lies" and a "dangerous practice" that should be avoided by Muslims. Commentators have described the phenomenon as symbolic of the growing political debate about use of Twitter in Saudi Arabia.Dr Saad al-Faqih, leader of the Movement for Islamic Reform in Arabia, said that the Saudi establishment was increasingly under threat from a growing army of Twitter users who dare speak out online.There were an estimated 127,500 Twitter users in Saudi Arabia in September last year, according to the Arab Social Media report published by the Dubai school of government, out of a total of 140 million users worldwide."Thanks to Mujtahidd, Twitter is now a household name in Saudi Arabia," said Abdulkhaleq Abdulla, a professor at Emirates University in Dubai. "His revelations about corruption at the highest level made Twitter popular and sharpened debate about the role of new social media in one of the most conservative societies on Earth today. The government is at the moment at a loss as to what to do with Twitter. They do not like what they see and hear but there is not much they can do."The growing use of social media to spread anger and dissent in the Arab world has been hailed by western governments as one of the chief justifications for a completely unfettered internet. The US isreportedlyfunding the secret rollout of technology in Iran in an effort to undermine internet censors in the country.However, some have accused cyberspace of provoking a dangerous collapse in the old order of civilised society. The shift in the balance of power online has given rise to a more powerful concern: the rise of the uncivil web.When the Bolton Wanderers footballer Fabrice Muamba collapsed during a televised Premier League match last month, broadcasters decided not to replay shocking pictures of the player lying face down on the pitch having a cardiac arrest. On the internet, there was no such inhibition. People flocked to YouTube, where videos of Muamba's trauma were viewed millions of times by people unconcerned that they were watching a young man on the verge of death.Other global taboos, such as sex and suicide, manifest themselves widely online, with websites offering suicide guides and Hot XXX Action seconds away at the click of a button. The UK government will come under pressure to block access to pornographic websites this year when a committee of MPs publishes its report on protecting children online.The Conservative MP Claire Perry claims to have strong cross-party support for her campaign, which would mean that British internet users would have to ask their service providers to unblock hardcore porn sites on their computer. "We have relied on internet providers to offer filters for porn for 20 years and it has not worked," said Perry. "This is having a big impact on children and there is a real need for an opt-in system."The unruly net is also playing havoc with the British judiciary. Social media were in direct conflict with the courts in May last year when anonymous Twitter users posted details about an alleged extramarital affair by the footballer Ryan Giggs, in breach of a privacy injunction thathad gagged the national media.It was a perfect irony that British national media had to wait for anMP to use parliamentary privilege– a 300-year-old legal immunity – before they could name Giggs as the footballer whose identity was already well known among their internet-savvy readers.The furore caused the lord chief justice, Lord Judge, to declare that modern technology was "completely out of control". The attorney general,Dominic Grieve, described the saga as a "phenomenon", but said it was not symbolic of a "serious crisis where the courts are being undermined".Grieve has faced calls to be more proactive in pursuing legal action against internet users who breach privacy injunctions, but the attorney general said he would intervene only if a case passed a strong public interest test."I have to look at things on a case by case basis, but just because somebody breaches an injunction on Facebook … does not automatically mean that has serious consequences. It does not stop gossiping over dinner tables," he said."The blunt reality is that somebody who tweets is likely to find themselves in contempt by the party who obtained the order. It is only a matter of time before that happens if people continue behaving this way."It is not known whether Nicolas Sarkozy read the British press on the day of his address to internet leaders – the same day many newspapers ran front-page stories on the internet phenomenon that outed Giggs – but the ability of cyberspace to topple the establishment is certainly what he had in mind.The French president told grandees of the online world,including Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg and Google's Eric Schmidt, that the internet was not a "parallel universe, free of legal and moral rules". The old order of the civilised world, Sarkozy observed, had been radically outpaced by the revolution in cyberspace."The internet is in danger, and it's getting worse," said Jeff Jarvis, the blogger and one of the internet leaders addressed by Sarkozy in Paris last May. "There are more and more attempts to regulate the internet under the guise of privacy, piracy, security, decency and in Nicolas Sarkozy's case, even civility."Privately, some at social networks fear that pressure to curb the internet will grow this year, culminating in a major summit held by the UN International Telecommunications Union (ITU) in December. Some internet officials see the summit as a "major power play" by the ITU, which they say wants greater oversight of the web.Attempts to curb the internet on a global level could spark tensions within the UN. The ITU has said its regulation of technology needs to adapt to the explosion of communication in the virtual world. But the UN body that promotes freedom of expression, Unesco, fears the plans could signal the end of an unfettered internet.Those plans have gained traction at the Council of Europe, whose head of human rights, Thomas Hammarberg, recently proposed that the UN should set up a special commission that could "filter out porn or incitement to war and hatred".Guy Berger, Unesco's director for freedom of expression and media, described Hammarberg's proposal as "politically and technically not practical". He added: "Unesco's 195 member states are never likely to want this organisation to become some sort of internet policeman, because its founding mandate is to promote freedom of expression. The antidote to trying to control the internet is to empower the users of the internet."Ultimately I don't see any other way that this can be resolved. I don't think it's feasible to really control the internet."Predictably, Facebook and Twitter are not keen either. Richard Allan, director of policy for Facebook in Europe, said the idea of a global internet policeman was "not an attractive one and one that would scare most of the industry".The general counsel for Twitter, Alex Macgillivray, is known for describing the microblogging service as "the free-speech wing of the free speech party". He said the internet should remain a "unique place for civil conversation" and that he was optimistic governments would preserve the "wonderful engine of free expression that it is".While some high-profile internet groups have vowed to avoid the arm of authority at any cost – the Pirate Bay website colourfully announcedit would attempt to host some servers on unmanned dronesmiles above the Earth – others have developed a more sophisticated response to the law. Twitter now has the ability to "withhold" content in specific countries if faced with a legitimate legal request.This balancing act allows Twitter to keep material online in all jurisdictions outside that specific country, such as France and Germany, where pro-Nazi content is unlawful. However, it is understood that Twitter has not yet removed material in this way since it became able to do so in January.The fight for control of the borderless expanse of cyberspace has been compared by some to the historic dispute over the rule of the ocean. Like the virtual world, the seas were once free of agreement, jurisdiction and sovereignty. And in 1973, when the UN met in New York for a summit that would eventually produce the law of the sea treaty, the internet was just a research project for a small group of scientists at Stanford University in California.Vint Cerf, one of the Stanford professors behind a key building block of the internet, believes the time has come for a global discussion on the future of the open web. "We don't have a framework yet that allows us to deal with some of these problems and that's an important discussion to have," he said. "We need to begin thinking about the law of the net in the same way as we think of the law of the sea."Cerf, now 68 and a vice-president at Google, thinks the offline world has not yet come to terms with what social norms look like online.The global expanse of cyberspace grows by about 150,000 web pages a day and is used by a third of the world's population. It is the borderless frontier for business, media, politics and warfare – and while autocrats have clamped down on cyberspace, western governments have aligned themselves with virtual dissidents who would face the full force of the law in their own countries.The boom in the social web has rocked even western governments to their core: it has meant that once-unthinkable curbs on an unfettered internet could soon be on the horizon.
