Next month sees the 100th anniversary of the publication ofSwann's Way, the first volume of Marcel Proust's masterpiece –Remembrance of Things Past(or, if you prefer DJ Enright's translation,In Search of Lost Time). So stand by for whatone expert calls a Proustathon. "Untold universities have planned at least one reading or round table dedicated to Proust. Every self-respecting bookstore will hold its own Proustathon, with authors, actors and book lovers reading snippets from his epic novel. The Centre for Fiction in New York has scheduled a Proust evening, and the French embassy is organising its own Proust occasion. There are Proust T-shirts, Proust coffee mugs, Proust watches, Proust comic series, Proust tote bags, Proust fountain pens and Proust paraphernalia of all&nbsp;stripes."As it happens, I'm readingSwann's Wayon a Kindle – which is more appropriate than you might think. The novel was effectively self-published by Proust himself (he paid a publisher to put it out) because the manuscript had been turned down by umpteen respectable publishing houses. If he had written it today, he could have published it himself, at no expense, as a Kindle book, just like EL James, the author ofFifty Shades of Grey, did in more recent times.The resolution to read the whole of Proust's masterpiece is (like the resolve to read Joyce'sUlysses) more honoured in the breach than the observance. I say this with feeling because the man who first commissioned me to write for this paper – the late, great literary editor Terry Kilmartin – produced a fine translation of it and I always felt guilty in his company because I had not read it. But there is one part ofRemembrance…that even those who have not read it will know. It's the passage inSwann's Waywhere the act of eating a quintessentially French confection called a "madeleine" unlocks Proust's memory."And as soon as I had recognised the taste of the piece of madeleine soaked in her decoction of lime-blossom which my aunt used to give me (although I did not yet know and must long postpone the discovery of why this memory made me so happy) immediately the old grey house upon the street, where her room was, rose up like a stage set to attach itself to the little pavilion opening on to the garden which had been built out behind it for my parents (the isolated segment which until that moment had been all that I could see); and with the house the town, from morning to night and in all weathers, the square where I used to be sent before lunch, the streets along which I used to run errands, the country roads we took when it was fine."After which, as they say, the rest is (personal) history.Information technology is wonderful but it can't do what that tea-soaked morsel of cake did for Proust. What about smells, though? They are perhaps even more evocative than tastes because – as any wine-buff will tell you – our noses are much more discriminating than our tongues. And here we come toAmy Radcliffe, a designer at Central Saint Martins art school in London, who wondered whether there would be a way to capture fleeting olfactory memories before they disappear into thin air. She has come up with an ingenious device that can capture and reproduce odours accurately. She calls it — what else? —the Madeleine.Amy Radcliffe's Madeleine analyses the chemical makeup of smells in order to be able to reproduce them. Photograph: Amy RadcliffeTo all intents and purposes, it's an analogue odour camera. It collects the smells emanating from a particular object and corrals them in a vial that is then sent off to a laboratory where a mass spectrometer analyses the content's molecular composition – the "recipe" of the smell, as it were. This can then be digitally transmitted and used to create the same odour if desired.It's a lovely idea but I guess most people would regard it as an example of what one might call leading-edge uselessness. The other evening I sat next to an eminent computer scientist at dinner and described Ms Radcliffe's invention to him in those terms. He was not amused and proceeded to tell me a story about an inquiry he had had many years ago from a major fish wholesaler. This man was based in London but the fish he bought and sold were landed from trawlers in Scotland. This was a pain because he liked to be able to smell a catch before deciding whether or not to purchase it. Was there any way, he asked my dinner-companion, that this new internet thing could help him to reduce the amount of travelling he had to do?There wasn't – then; but maybe there is now. Which only goes to confirm the old adage that "pure" research is just research that hasn't been applied&nbsp;yet.
To me, Cascada is a ghastly German eurodance act. Or a Spanish waterfall. Possibly not the best name for Vauxhall's cool (they hope) cruiser convertible, especially not in a country where the weather means you'll rarely have the opportunity to get the top down. Sack the marketing team, quick.Today is beautiful, though; English autumn at its most glorious. And the car does look rather nice, even in "sculpture bronze" with a hood in "dogshit brown" (not Vauxhall's description). My girlfriend has her best mate over, and I hand over the keys in exchange for feedback: once, about 100 years ago, they did a road trip to the seaside in a convertible MG, and they want to relive the magic. So they take the Vauxhall to the big Tesco on the North Circular, to buy, among other things, nappies. Not exactly Thelma and Louise, is it?Anyway, they have a nice time, and get "kind of wolf-whistled at" by some boys in Neasden (I'm afraid they're very unreconstructed women who seem to consider this is a good thing). What else? They think it drives nicely, if sedately, and add that a convertible should perhaps be smaller and sportier, neater, more romantic. But they appreciate the room for the shopping, the level of comfort, the heated seats, the fact that they can actually have a conversation etc. Sometimes I think they don't know what they want.Parking up at Tesco, they hate the electronic handbrake, having never come across one before. Totally with them on this, and I've come across loads. Listen up, car manufacturers, they take longer, you never know if they're on or not, no one likes them. I've asked. Everyone. So stop it.After giving the Cascada a thorough and expert going over myself, I'm finding it hard to disagree with anything my girlfriend and her friend said (it's as if anyone could do this job). And that includes their conclusion: they think it's great. But returning to the car, dropping the roof (very neat), they are not quite getting that rush of joy and freedom they had back in 19-whenever.Obviously, that's partly because they're in a Tesco car park on the North Circular, but it's also something to do with the car itself. Convertibles are a lot about style, and this one – mainly because of the Griffin badge on the grille – doesn't have enough."It's a little bit Stevenage," one says (I won't embarrass her by saying which, because there's nothing uglier than snobbery, especially coupled with being unreconstructed). She's right though. Not only is it not as cool as an MG, it's also not as cute or desirable as an Audi A5. That's why it's cheaper. And maybe why they only got "kind of" wolf-whistled at.Vauxhall Cascada Elite 2.0CDTi 16v (165PS) Start/StopPrice£27,595Top speed135mphAcceleration0-60mph in 9.6 secondsCombined fuel consumption54.3mpgCO2emissions138g/kmGreen rating5/10Cool rating7/10
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewAfter being catapulted through time to an era when animals rule the Earth, lumberjack Tim Burr needs to punch his way to freedom with the giant talking hand he suddenly discovers he has. Starting with angry deer and moving on to horses, dogs and many, many bears, what ensues is a lighthearted if repetitious Streets Of Rage-alike for the post-irony generation. Expect jokes about beards, fourth-wall mockery and an experience points system that rewards you even when you get kicked to death by enraged bison.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewDevice 6 is a fascinating piece of interactive fiction in which the words of its narrative form the rooms, corridors and courtyards of the buildings you explore. That means that as you play, you need to rotate your iPhone as well as scrolling through pages to follow the winding path of its story. Deeply elliptical in nature and bracketed by abstruse puzzles, your exploration leads you past spooky dolls, strange machinery and the six devices of its title. Brilliantly executed adventuring.
Providing a familiar mix of excitingly weird-looking surround-sound apparatus, robotic pets, 3D printers and mobile phones not made by Apple,Gadget Show Live(1-3 Nov, Earls Court, SW5) will also have a copious Game Zone, where you can play with Xbox One and PlayStation 4 before their release next month. Games out this week includeJust Dance Kids 2014(Xbox, Wii, Wii U), which lets little ones get down to the themes from Fraggle Rock, Footloose plus One Direction's One Thing;Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Out Of The Shadows(Xbox, Wii, 3DS) supplies indescribably weak button-mashing tedium for those too obsessed with cartoon martial arts to care;Wii Party U(Wii U, pictured) has 65 family-friendly mini-games; andRocksmith 2014(Xbox, PS3, PC) helps you learn to play guitar by plugging one in and playing along to a variety of rawk favourites.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewGameStick is a tiny games console that lets you play Android games on the big screen. Plug it in, wirelessly pair the joypad, register and you're ready to download some games. Smash Cops is a wobbly-feeling copy of iOS police cars-ramming-bad-guys game Smash Bandits; Repulze is a half-hearted WipEout clone with fewer weapons and no Chemical Brothers soundtrack; Shadowgun wishes it were Gears Of War, but is hobbled by some of the most poorly implemented controls ever imagined, while Ski Safari's dead simple avalanche-escaping at least plays reasonably well. GameStick's offer of cheap gaming for everyone is appealing, but only if developers can stump up software that's less dispiritingly amateurish.
Apple is upgrading pirated copies of its iWork app suite and £55 Aperture photography app for free with its OS X &quot;Mavericks&quot; release. But it says it&apos;s not a mistake; it&apos;s an indication of trust - however misplaced - in its users.The company announced on Tuesday that it was making its newest desktop operating system update available as a free download. Bundled with that are free upgrades for anyone who previously owned its iWork suite (the Numbers spreadsheet, Pages document editor and Keynote presentation software) - and Aperture, its professional application.But users who had pirated copieshave discovered that those have been updated tooYet that&apos;s not an error:a statement to MacTrastwhich it is confident comes from an Apple software engineer said, “while we are aware that this enables piracy of our apps for unethical users, Apple has never taken a strong stance or action against piracy in the past. We like to believe that our users are honest, even if that belief is in vain.”Saving bandwidth, not moneyThe update system will recognise trial versions or illegally obtained copies of iWork and Aperture and let users to add them to their Apple IDs - which link users to their purchases - in the online Mac App Store and download legitimate versions to any machine associated with that ID.“It’s no coincidence that Apple’s support site doesn’t have downloads for the new Aperture, iWork, and iLife updates. They aren’t in our Software Update system either – and there’s a good reason for that. With Mavericks, we have changed the way we distribute updates for legacy versions of our apps,” the Apple engineer said.The number of people with pirated versions of Aperture - the only case where Apple is directly forgoing revenue - is unknown. The company has never released sales figures for the software.Because it relies principally on hardware rather than software sales for its profit, Apple has taken a less stringent approach to software protection than Microsoft, which is principally funded by software licensing. Deep inside the Mac OSX kernelis a piece of code called &quot;Don&apos;t Steal Mac OSX.kext&quot;which contains a copyright warning. But Apple has not taken action against individuals who have built so-called &quot;Hackintoshes&quot; using its Mac OS X software loaded on non-Macintosh hardware.Time and effortApple has consolidated its software distribution platform around the Mac App Store, a process it started in January 2011 with the OS X Snow Leopard 10.6.6 update, which was then used to distribute Apple’s OS X Lion six months later.“Rather than maintain separate updates for these in addition to the Mac App Store versions of each app, Apple has decided to eliminate their legacy software update system for apps entirely. Instead, when Mavericks discovers legacy apps installed on your Mac, it provisions them as a Mac App Store purchase using your Apple ID. It saves us a lot of time, effort, and bandwidth. After the provision is complete, it will appear in your Mac App Store history as though you have purchased the Mac App Store version of the app.”Described by Eddy Cue, Apple’s senior vice president of internet software and services as “something bold, something that changes the rules of the game”, and by chief executive Tim Cook as “turning the industry on its ear”, Apple made the move to “revolutionise pricing”, by not only offering its latest operating system as a free upgrade, but both its iLife and iWork entertainment and productivity applications on OS X and iOS too, with the purchase of new Apple devices with the release ofOS X Mavericks in October.Apple had not responded to a request for comment by the time of publication.• In October, Apple released thebrand new iPad Air and the iPad mini with retina display
Finding 3D-printed gun parts in the Manchester suburb of Baguley, as the police have claimed, seems like a fearful omen of the future. Greater Manchester police hailed it on Friday as a  significant discovery, but with the current state of the technology, the person most in danger was probably the owner the "gun" themselves.In fact, the police don't actually seem to have found gun components, 3D-printed or otherwise. The two items they showed at their press conference on Fridayappeared instead to br  3D printer parts. Officers maintain, however, that the haul is disturbing, given that they also seized gunpowder during the raid.The concept of a 3D printer that can print a 3D printer is itself vaguely concerning (isn't that how Terminator starts?) but it is still a relief compared with the prospect of downloadable weaponry on every street corner.But we should not be complacent. Even if this case turns out not to be a printed gun, there will be one in Britain soon. The technology is already fairly cheap and widespread, and getting more so all the time.For the time being, however, the risk from a 3D-printed gun is mostly hypothetical for two reasons: they aren't very good, and you can't print bullets.At its heart, a gun is a simple machine. The cartridge goes in one end. A firing pin hits it, gunpowder explodes, and rapidly expanding gases push the bullet out of the barrel very, very quickly.The principles are so simple that by the 1950s, zip guns had become the scourge of New York. Street gangs would hammer together wood, antenna housings and elastic bands, buy (or steal) real bullets, and fire them at one another.The Liberator, the 3D-printed gun thatmade headlines around the world in May, works on the same principles. Except for the firing pin, which still needs to be made from metal, the entire gun is printed in 15 separate parts, the plans for which can be downloaded from a number of sites, including the filesharing hub The Pirate Bay, using a 3D printer. It all sounds futuristic, but at heart, the Liberator remains little more than a zip gun.The gun is  designed only to deliver one shot. It is inaccurate, with a short barrel that struggles to point the bullet in the right direction. That short barrel also means it is underpowered, even for a handgun, with most of the explosive energy dissipating harmlessly around the edges. To top it all, the guns are still vulnerable to "catastrophic failure", asNew South Wales police discovered when testing the plans earlier this year."We fear that the next story will be about a child blowing their hand off while experimenting with a 3D-printed gun," wroteJason Rowley on the 3D printing blog Digits2Widgets. "This type of accident is the immediate danger of the project and will happen long before anyone is deliberately killed by one of these tools."
Email overload is something most of us can’t escape, and many have tried to solve the issue, butTapermight actually work, acting like a doorman for your inbox so you can get on with your day.Services and apps like Mailbox, and even Google’s own priority inbox, have attempted to solve the problem by prioritising email using intelligent filters or by turning your email into a pseudo to-do list allowing you to get swiftly down toinbox zero.Taper allows you to tame your inbox using a completely different methodology.Taper aims to reclaim your inbox, five emails at a time.One in, one outInstead of trying to keep things out of your inbox, allowing you to pretend that some emails don’t matter, it essentially operates a one in, one out policy.Taper only lets five emails into your inbox at any one time, waiting for you to process those before letting any more in.The idea is that five emails are easy to blast through, allowing you to quickly and effectively process them.Taper will also allow you to set time delays for emails, meaning that once you’ve processed five you can get a respite from email for a user-definable period like 30 minutes, for example, allowing you to be productive, rather than spending all your time managing email.Taper only allows five emails into your actual inbox at a time, storing the rest safely in another folder in your email accountEmails from your boss let straight throughOf course, some emails you must absolutely see immediately, like those from your boss demanding a report on their desk five minutes ago, so Taper will let you define a priority list that will come straight through.If you absolutely must look at your complete list of email, you can simply peek at the pending chain of emails waiting for access to your inbox so that nothing is actually lost or trapped by using Taper.Taper iscurrently looking for $23,000 in fundingto develop a cloud-based solution that will allow you to use almost any email service and any email client on almost any device. The minimum pledge is $3 (£1.90), with a $15 pledge giving you access to a proof-of-concept application for the Mac, and pledges from $20 and up gaining you two years of Taper cloud service.Why it might not workTaper will be a cloud-based, paid-for service that offers a solution to a problem other services like Google’s priority inbox offer to do for free.Like other services such as Mailbox, it also requires complete trust in the company because you have to give Taper full access to your email for the service to work.Taper proof-of-concept Mac appWhy it might take offEmail overload is a massive problem for a lot of people. While a myriad of services offer various different approaches to the mounting inbox problem, none quite offer such a simple approach that can be used with any email client, rather than a specific app or email service.Taper doesn’t require the user to change their current email workflow, and doesn’t run the risk of de-prioritising an important email.Of course, if you are already using an inbox control service such as Mailbox or Google’s priority inbox and it genuinely works for you, then Taper isn’t necessary.But if you’re like me, with an insurmountable inbox overload problem, Taper could be the solution you’ve been waiting for.Star rating: 4/5• In September, Mailbox app wasforced to strip Javascript from emailsover security concerns
A high-profile file-sharing site has been revealed to be a year-long pirate &quot;honeypot&quot;, collecting data on users, file hosters and websites.The revelation, which had users of the forum up in arms, accompanied the purchase of the UploaderTalk (UT) site by US-based anti-piracy companyNuke Piracy.A honeypot is a facility, in this case a site, run under false pretences that encourages criminal behaviour in an effort to collect incriminating data.“That&apos;s right – the biggest swerve ever,” the operator of UT, known only as WDF,said in a statementabout the purchase of the site. “I, WDF, work for the anti-piracy people!”Set up to collect dataWDF, having previously been a senior member of another high-profile filesharing site calledWJunction, started UT a year ago – a site designed to attract people who upload copyrighted files to file-hosting sites for profit, as well as representatives of file-hosters touting affiliate and incentive schemes.“UT was set up for a number of reasons. But mostly to be a sounding board, proof of concept ... and to collect data,” said WDF.“I collected info on file hosts, web hosts, websites. I suckered shitloads of you,” WDF bragged.Proprietary and unconventional methodsIt is unclear what WDF or Nuke Piracy, a private anti-piracy firm, intends to do with the data collected. Nuke Piracy, based in Arkansas, USA, clearly states on its website that it uses “proprietary and unconventional methods we do not discuss or disclose our methodologies, processes, and procedures publicly.”It is likely that Nuke Piracy will use the data as part of its anti-piracy actions, collected from UT and possibly WJunction as well, given that WDF had access to sensitive data on the site as a senior management including user accounts.“I work for Nuke Piracy now, this is very bad for anyone profiting from piracy,” proclaimed WDF.Nuke Piracy, which launched its own site and “IP theft and copyright infringement detection, mitigation, and prevention” services in February 2013, has reportedly made several moves toacquire active piracy sites, set up honeypots, as well as an anti-piracy news site calledCashWhore.net.• In October, the notorious BitTorrent siteisoHunt shut down prematurelyafter losing its battle with copyright holders
I moved to Berlin in January this year and lived there for eight months, in which I gained and lost three jobs, two boyfriends, and one flat. Clearly, I had a whale of a time. Nonetheless, it's not quite as wonderful as the media would have you believe. Here's what I wish someone had told me beforehand:1. The Berlin startup scene is a total bubbleIt is without a doubt a 'scene': people value being part of it, they socialise within it, use startup buzzwords like UX and MVP, and in the process they cut off access to outsiders. Some people don't actually know what startups are. Seriously. When I first got a whiff of the startup scene, I was intrigued, and I think I started emitting some kind of hormone and was quickly dragged into its orbit.2. Wearing a tiger onesie to work isn't necessarily a smart planThis one I should have been able to work out for myself. Morale was low in the office as the future of our startup (Gidsy) was uncertain, and a tiger suit seemed like an excellent idea at the time. As it turns out, that was the day I was made redundant. So that was awkward. Lesson learned.3. Nobody has a real jobAdmittedly, people tried to warn me. Like a relationship with a dodgy new boyfriend, I said: "Oh but it'll be different with me". It's not different. Proper, full-time jobs are few and far between, everybody else works weird hours for low pay, has various "projects" on the go which never materialise, and goes out on Sunday nights until 5am. It's a totally unsustainable (if highly enjoyable) lifestyle.4. It's possible to fall down the party holeClubs stay open from Friday until Monday, so it's no wonder that people don't have real jobs. In fact, from my tireless field research, I've concluded that clubs are open all week too. Sometimes you find yourself coming home at 7am on a Wednesday, wondering what you're doing with your life. Spotting a man with a syringe doesn't help.5. It's incredibly inward-lookingEveryone living in it is very Berlin-centric. They talk about the city, they love it, they live and breathe it and they complain about it. They follow Berlin blogs, they post about Berlin on Facebook, they share Berlin moments like in-jokes. The very act of writing this is hypocritical because it's all about Berlin. "Oh, how meta," the hipsters would say.6. Getting paid is a luxury not a rightThere's no minimum wage in Germany (land of plenty, yes, that economic superpower). Luckily, it's possible to live even on the princely sum of €491 (£418) per month. Expats love to complain that rent is no longer cheap due to the flood of expats (!) driving up prices. However, my rent was €225 per month including bills. It wasn't even a crack den.7. Fail culture rulesTalk of failure is everywhere, and to be honest I would rather be winning. Startups choose to 'fail fast, fail hard, embrace failure', and so on. Sometimes this probably means: "We have no idea what we're doing, but when we get it wrong it doesn't matter because we're a startup, and failure is awesome. The internet told me so."8. The independent bars and cafes are surprisingly similarWhen I was a tourist in Berlin, I bemoaned the lack of indie cafes in London and preached to the uninitiated about the myriad places in Berlin. Living there made me realise that 90% of them have identikit mismatched vintage furniture, candles, and possibly the same playlist audible in the background. Still rather lovely though.9. Nobody speaks GermanThat's a slight exaggeration. However, despite spending time, money and effort grappling with the unwieldy German language, I found that I was surrounded by people from Spain, Italy, Israel, the Netherlands, everywhere. So English is what you hear in the streets and the office, and Germans I met spoke it fluently. So all this "ich habe eine Schwester" business was frankly embarrassing.10. Your circle of friends will be ever decreasingBerlin is amazingly transient. When I arrived, I went to lots of networking events, and a friend who had been there for two years asked if I could take her along as many of her friends had already left the city. Fortunately, the constant shift means that people are very open and friendly, and you might leave with a different batch of pals than the ones you started with.Ok, so it goes up to 11 … Hey, it worked for Spinal Tap.11. The streets are not paved with goldThey are strewn with graffiti and crack-addled weirdos, but don't let that stop you from visiting. A whirlwind weekend break in the city will leave you a little breathless and wanting more. I made the decision to break up with Berlin. We were in love, we fought a lot, and it was exhilarating for the most part, but I'm getting back together with London, my long-term love.At the end of her time in Berlin, Lauren compiled a list of people to see, places to go, and more, in the form of theBerlin Startup Cheat Sheet.
Facebook has sparked controversy by changing its privacy settingsto give teenagers the same control as adults over what they share publicly. Photos, status updates and posts are now fully searchable by everyone on the social network.Facebook argues that the way young people use the web has changed dramatically and thatteenagers are experts at controlling who they share things with. But concerns amongst the adult population are widespread.A report by the Pew Internet and the American Life Project found that 91% of the 12-to-17-year-olds it surveyed post photos of themselves, 91% are happy posting their real name, 60% their relationship status, 82% their birthday, 71% the town where they live and the school they attend, 53% their email address and 20% their mobile number. Figures like these help create fears that younger people are not concerned about the information they&apos;re sharing online.But what do teenagers themselves think? Three tell us their feelings about sharing information online and what they make of Facebook&apos;s new privacy settings.Oscar, 13I look at my settings quite a lot and I clicked on privacy and I found it. But I&apos;ll definitely keep posts to just my friends because if I set it to friends of friends then it could be thousands of people I don&apos;t know seeing them. I don&apos;t want people who&apos;re much older seeing my stuff. If I was on holiday and posted a picture of my family - I don&apos;t want everyone seeing that.Occasionally someone has answered a post in an anti-social way but I normally answer back in a non-aggressive, joky way and they normally stop immediately. Sometimes I just leave it and sometimes friends answer for me and back me up. I know people who have had problems with friends of friends saying mean things.All the stuff I put up on Facebook goes to people who know me therefore they understand what I&apos;m talking about. People who don&apos;t know me could misunderstand it and send me messages like &quot;What are you on about?&quot; I don&apos;t want that and it&apos;s often friends of friends who say that stuff, not friends. I use Facebook to watch funny videos, but also for chatting and sharing in-jokes which is part of the reason I don&apos;t want everyone on the internet seeing it.I love Facebook because you can talk with friends and connect with people I haven&apos;t seen for a long time. It&apos;s great to share stuff. The bad thing is some people misuse it. I will always be careful about the images I put on there. We had someone talk to us and they told us a story about a boy who put up an inappropriate picture on Facebook and years later someone showed him the picture and he was very embarrassed.Facebook&apos;s becoming more and more prominent in today&apos;s society so you need Facebook now - it&apos;s not a plus, you actually need it. I might stop using it if I get particularly bad comments, and I suppose if I got really serious bullying then I would stop it and not use it at all.If I found out Facebook was sharing lots of stuff about me I would be really careful about my privacy settings but I don&apos;t think I&apos;d stop using it.Amy, 15I had no idea about this [change] but I have my sharing settings set to friends, however it would have been nice to have been told. I think it’s a huge problem and I can’t believe Facebook would allow this.Many people might not realise their posts are being shared for the world to see, and some young people might not realise the dangers of the internet. In my opinion Facebook need to do more to safeguard and protect their younger users.I’ll definitely just keep my posts to my friends. I think it’s important to do this, for our own privacy and protection, otherwise anyone in the world would be able to view what you are saying, and if you are disclosing personal information that could put you at risk.I’ve never had any problems due to something I have posted. I know of a few girls in my school who were involved in sexting on Facebook messages and have had their photos spread around, obviously you should never share what you wouldn’t show your nan! But it was beyond awful for them and their families, and I can’t imagine how horrible it must have been for them.I think Facebook is a good social platform to be able to interact with friends. However I think more measures need to be put in place to safeguard young people, and I think they need to publish more advice for young people, and run internet awareness campaigns.I don’t think I will stop using it in the near future. I’m sure as time progresses more websites and technology will be created, and eventually it will be overtaken just like MySpace and Bebo were.AmySharps, 15I knew about the setting before now and I&apos;ll keep it to just friends as it is safer and I don&apos;t want people who I don&apos;t know being able to see my posts. It could be dangerous as people who you don&apos;t know could be reading your posts, and they could be someone who you don&apos;t want to get involved with. I know someone who posted the details of a party on Facebook, and shared it with friends of friends, lots of people turned up who they didn&apos;t know.I think Facebook is good if you use it in the right way, with the correct safety and privacy settings. It allows you to communicate with friends all over the world, as well as seeing what they are up to and video calling them. I don&apos;t think I will stop using it as it is an important form of contact between my friends and I go on it almost every day - checking my newsfeed has almost become part of my daily routine!
It's Friday. Don't forget to watch Cara and Keith's PowerLunch, live from Gamecity,today at 1pm!
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later in the day.For now, read on for this week's Android selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest Android appsposts).Plants vs. Zombies 2 (Free)It took a little while after its iOS release, but EA and PopCap's Plants vs. Zombies sequel has finally launched on Android. The big change is a move to freemium, so the game is free to play with in-app purchases used to buy boosts. That's been controversial in some quarters, but the game remains fun: a strategic defence game where you fend off zombie hordes by placing plants.YPlan - New York and London (Free)YPlan is one of an emerging crop of apps aiming to help you decide where to spend evenings out. For now, it covers London and New York, providing a slick list of events, and helping you buy tickets – often at a discount. Music, cinema, theatre and even "chessboxing" have been featured so far.BBM (Free)BlackBerry had a false start taking its BBM app to other platforms, when a leaked version on Android scuppered its servers. Now it's officially live, marking the first time the messaging service has been available on non-BlackBerry devices. For now, it's focused on text chatting and sharing photos, files and voice notes, with the group chat and broadcast messages that made it popular on its home platform. More than 5m people have already signed up on Android alone.Sky Gamblers: Air Supremacy (Free)Namco Bandai's Sky Gamblers has become a popular mobile game franchise in recent times, with a succession of visually-impressive dogfighting titles. This is the latest version, offering more solo modes than before, as well as online multiplayer with a choice of teaming up with friends, or blasting them out of the skies. As before, the graphics are spiffing, but there's gameplay depth to accompany them.HarperCollins Unbound (Free)This is a pretty intriguing move from book publisher HarperCollins: a move into augmented reality. That means pointing your device at a print book to get more interviews, recorded readings and other interactive features, including content to download to your device. For now, it appears to work with two books: The Pioneer Woman Cooks: A Year of Holidays and You: The Owner's Manual.Dead Trigger 2 (Free)The original Dead Trigger was a made-for-mobile first-person-shooter by developer MadFinger Games, and it's so far notched up more than 23m downloads. The sequel amps up the action: more zombies, including bosses, and more weapons to dispatch them with. The graphics are also a draw: this is one of the best-looking Android games in recent times.Aereo Beta (Free)Aereo is a US thing for now, and a controversial one at that. It's a service that lets you record and stream live TV, with the retransmission that this involves having got the networks scrambling for their lawyers. For now, Aereo remains up and running though: its Android app lets viewers tune in live, record up to 20 hours of shows, and watch from wherever they want.Combat Monsters (Free)Developer Rubicon Development was responsible for the excellent Great Little War Game and Great Big War Game Android games, so its latest release comes with plenty of anticipation. Here, the emphasis is on a deep fantasy-strategy game with, yes, monsters as the main characters. It's tactical-combat plus card-battling, with a choice of a solo campaign or online multiplayer battles.Molto – Email app (Free)There are lots of startups trying to fix email at the moment, and many of them start on iOS, disappointingly for Android owners. Molto is thankfully bucking that trend: it's a tablet email app with a sleek, elegant design that works as one inbox to rule all your accounts. Swipes are the rule for getting around, and there's also a nice-looking 'Photo Inbox' features for pics.Hum This! (£1.49)Hum This! might be the first karaoke mobile game where you keep your mouth closed. It gets you to hum a range of famous songs to friends over the network, and get them to guess what the tune is. Then vice versa. It's Draw Something for humming, basically, with the added spin that proceeds from the app are shared with charities War Child and Nordoff Robbins.Power-Grid (Free)This is an app for remote-controlling a PC from your Android device, aimed partly at gamers, but also general users. You have to install the companion software on said computer first, but then you can interact with it on your touchscreen through "grids" focused on areas like incoming social feeds, sound controls, system stats and dedicated gaming features.Oh My Heroes! (Free)Developer Triniti Interactive has made some great games in its history, including Call of Mini and Tiny Legends. This is its latest: a horizontally-scrolling hack'n'slasher with different heroes to play as, and a nifty online multiplayer mode.Ruffl (Free)Another app for getting out and about, although this one's focused specifically on London for now. It's a database of restaurants, helping you find somewhere to eat then book a table there. Location-based searches and the odd discount make it a good starting point when looking for grub out on the town.Rise To Fame (£1.25)Rise To Fame is part of a decidedly-niche game genre: the music RPG. It sees you touring the globe as a rock band playing to some strange crowds (zombies?!) while building up your skills and instruments. It's a fun spin on RPGs for music fans.Switchr - Task Switcher (Free)Do you really need a new app to switch between different running applications on Android? Switchr is good enough to convince you: "a lot like Alt-Tab, except prettier, more fluid, and customizable, with a few more features sprinkled here and there," according to its developer. That's about right, with an in-app purchase required to unlock all its features.Wake the Cat (£0.69)Games publisher Chillingo's latest title is a fun casual game about, yep, cats. Specifically waking up a kitten by solving a series of physics puzzles with items including balls of yarn, slippers and toy cars. A cutesy 90-level brain workout with plenty of charm.doctape Viewer (£1.70)This does what it says on the tin: lets you open all manner of file formats from one place, from music, video and photos through to office documents and PDFs. It can also import these files from a range of sources, including Gmail, Dropbox, Facebook and Instagram.Seven Dwarfs: Queen's Return (Free)Disney's new freemium game is getting some stinking reviews on Google Play, but that appears to be down to technical gremlins stopping people from loading it up. Assuming those get solved, it could be worth a look for Disneyphiles: a village-building game starring Snow White and the seven dwarfs.The Moth (£0.62)The Moth Radio Hour is a highly-regarded radio show in the US all about storytelling. This is its app, promising streams of hundreds of stories from the show, its podcast and its live events, with offline listening and sharing features both included.Lynx Browser (£3.03)Finally, something for Android owners worried about their data usage. Inspired by text-only web browser Lynx, this is a similar thing for mobile devices, turning its nose up at images and ads to provide faster browsing of readable content on websites.That's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
Microsoft posted quarterly revenue and earnings Thursday that easily topped Wall Street forecasts, marking a healthy start to a companywide overhaul it announced in July to transform the software giant into a &quot;devices and services&quot; company.Its stock rose nearly 6% in after-hours trading.&quot;Our devices and services transformation is progressing,&quot; outgoing chief executive Steve Ballmer said in a statement with the company&apos;s fiscal first-quarter results. Ballmer said in August he&apos;ll step down within 12 months and the search is on to find his successor.Microsoft&apos;s net income for the three months to 30 September grew 17% to $5.24bn, or 62c per share, from $4.47bn, or 53c per share, a year ago. It handily beat the 54c expected by analysts polled by FactSet.Revenue rose 16% to $18.53bn, also beating the $17.79bn analysts were expecting.Surface turns upMicrosoft&apos;s revenue from its Surface tablets hit $400 million, representing a gain in revenue and more than a doubling of unit sales from the quarter that ended in June, helped by a price cut to its slimmed down Surface RT model in July. Profitability in the division that houses Surface fell, mainly because the cost of making Surface tablets rose by $645m from a year ago.It&apos;s the first time the company has broken out Surface results, though in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in July it revealed that the Surface line - both RT and Pro - had generated $833m of revenues between September 2012 and June 2013, while it also took a $900m writedown on unsold inventory of the hybrid laptop-tablets.Lisa Nelson, director of investor relations, said the strategy behind Surface is to sell more devices, allowing the company to cover its fixed costs, while benefiting if users pay for other Microsoft services like the Skype Internet calling app or extra cloud storage space through SkyDrive. A new partnership to outfit Best Buy stores with special displays dedicated to Microsoft wares should help boost sales, she said. The company also launched its latest models, Surface 2 and Surface Pro 2, on Tuesday.&quot;We&apos;re feeling really good about Surface, especially as we head into the holiday season,&quot; she said.Windows slowdownRevenue from its flagship Windows operating system from manufacturing partners declined, while enterprise software business grew.Commercial licensing representing enterprise products like Windows Server and System Center is now by far Microsoft&apos;s biggest reporting segment. Its revenue rose 7% to $9.59bn. When combined with cloud-computing services such as its Windows Azure platform and subscriptions to Office 365, commercial revenue rose 10% to $11.2bn.Devices and consumer licensing revenue, containing revenue from Windows and Windows Phone, fell 7% to $4.34bn.Hardware sales including Surface rose to $1.49bn from $1.08bn, while other consumer revenue from units such as the Bing search engine and its own video game sales climbed to $1.64bn from $1.40bn.Microsoft also provided comparisons with its previous segment data, which showed that the elements of its Entertainment &amp; Devices division, which includes the Xbox and Windows Phone business, grew slightly to $2bn while making a loss of $15m, against a $21m profit a year ago.Overall revenues at what was the Windows division grew by 4%, to $4.58bn, but profits slumped by 21% to $2.24bn. Revenues and profits at the Business division, which includes the Office suite, were flat at $5.99bn and $3.86bn.The Servers and Tools business, which provides server software, grew strongly by 11% to $5.1bn, and profits by 16.5% to $2bn.The Online Services division increased its revenues 25% to $872m, and narrowed losses slightly to $321m.Not on the ropesAl Hilwa of the research company IDC said: &quot;This is by no means a company on the ropes like it has been portrayed recently. A transformation such as the one Microsoft is going through typically would require several years to execute fully, but Microsoft’s broad portfolio of products and its early move to the cloud are helping the company weather this much better than expected. There really was stuff to cheer about in multiple areas, but the growth in the enterprise business especially the database product (SQL Server) and the cloud business are key.&quot;Richard Windsor, an independent analyst who runs the Radio Free Mobile consultancy, said: &quot;Surface fared better than expected. I would estimate that the revenues equate to around 1m units, double what the company shipped last quarter. This was a result if the very heavy price cuts that Microsoft has put through to try and shift the unwanted inventory.&quot;But Windsor added that Surface could still face challenges: &quot;With the new version of the product launched, prices have gone back up again and the older product is now obsolete. Hence, I would expect that this quarter will show another disappointment.&quot;However he said: &quot;Microsoft remains good value for the investor and offers the only real alternative ecosystem to Google or Apple.&quot; He thinks that shares in Google - whose price recently passed $1,000 - and Apple have little promise: &quot;Yahoo! and Microsoft remain the only stocks to look at when investing in ecosystems,&quot; he said.Busy yearIt has been a busy year for Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington. Last month, it said it would acquire the handset business of Finland&apos;s Nokia for $7.2bn - a deal that is expected to complete early in 2014 - and this month launched sales of the latest version of its Surface tablets. Next month it will launch its latest game console, Xbox One.The transformation of Microsoft&apos;s business is crucial as sales of personal computers, once Windows&apos; mainstay, continued to fall. Research firm IDC said that global shipments of PCs fell 8% in the third quarter of the year for the sixth straight decline. Another firm, Gartner, put the decline at almost 9%.Daniel Ives, senior analyst at FBR Capital Markets &amp; Co., said Microsoft&apos;s strong enterprise software and cloud-computing results are offsetting the decline in the PC market.&quot;Even though there are massive PC headwinds they&apos;re facing, they&apos;re doing an admirable job,&quot; he said.Microsoft&apos;s shares rose $1.88 to $35.60 in extended trading following the release of the earnings report.•Readour review of the new Surface Pro: the right tablet for the time, or too much?
British music labels are launching their own YouTube channel, Transmitter, to promote UK artists with a mixture of live performances, interviews and album playbacks.The channel will launch on 11 November as a joint venture between industry body BPI and online video firmLoveLive, which has previously worked with a range of artists, labels and brands on video projects.Original shows on Transmitter will include collaboration-focused The Hook-Up; First Play for album playbacks; and weekly magazine show Live At 5. Fans will be encouraged to chat to artists during the live streams, while another show called Matchmaker will see artists and YouTube stars teaming up."There's been a lack of platforms that promote multiple artists. It used to happen on television, but since Top of the Pops finished there's no weekly show any more in primetime that introduces consumers to what's going on in music," BPI chief executive Geoff Taylor told The Guardian."And on YouTube, there's nothing for mainstream chart music that does that. The audience has moved from television to mobile, so we want to both help labels promote their artists and help fans find really high-quality content."British stars Tinie Tempah, Drenge, The Saturdays, James Arthur, Wretch 32 and The Wanted will be among the first artists to appear on Transmitter, with overseas musicians including The Strypes, Sean Paul and Janelle Monae also set to take part."I think Transmitter is a great and exciting new way for artists to talk about music in detail, from their early influences to new and exciting discoveries, all within one of the biggest platforms for music in the world," said Tempah in a statement.The BPI points to a YouGov survey in May 2013 that found 77% of 16-24 year-olds in the UK listening to music on YouTube, compared to 33% listening to streaming music services like Spotify.Some music-related brands are already taking advantage. Youth lifestyle broadcasterSB.TVhas notched up more than 189m views on YouTube, and recentlywon private equity backing in a deal valuing the company at £8m.Meanwhile, bass-music brandUKF, which launched its UKF Dubstep and UKF Drum &amp; Bass channels in 2009, now has more than 6.1m subscribers and just under 1.5bn views across the two channels, and has used YouTube as a platform to expand into compilations, merchandise and live events.It's no co-incidence that both SB.TV and UKF were started by teenage entrepreneurs. Transmitter is an attempt to show that established music industry companies can find similar success on YouTube, with another example being theAll Def Music channel being launched by Universal Musicand Def Jam founder Russell Simmons.The BPI will take comfort from the example of Turkish industry body MÜ-YAP, whosechannel aggregating videos from artists in Turkeyhas become one of YouTube's most popular channels.In September, MÜ-YAP generated 179m video views, making it thethird largest channel behind only Miley Cyrus and PewDiePie. However, Taylor said the BPI is keen for Transmitter to not be seen as another MÜ-YAP, in terms of being driven by a trade body."We're not doing this because we're a trade body or because we think it needs to be done by a trade body. We're doing it because all labels think it's something that can add to what's out there, and the BPI is a convenient place for labels to do something together," said Taylor."The BPI does a lot of things to protect the market, but we want to promote the market as well as protecting it. We've embedded click-to-buy in the videos in quite an interesting way, so it's very much about helping the legal music market to grow."It's also a positive turn in the fractious relationship between the BPI and YouTube's parent company Google. The BPI has been harrying Google in 2013 over what it sees as broken promises over its anti-piracy strategy.In August 2012, Google announced that it would begin using "valid copyright removal notices" from rightsholders as one of the signals for its search rankings, with the result that sites receiving a large number of successful takedown requestsmight appear lower in Google's search results.Industry bodies like the BPI and its US counterpart the RIAA ramped up the number of takedown notices accordingly –Google's own stats show it received 5.4m notices from the BPI alonein the last month – but both bodies have complained vociferously that piracy sites aren't being demoted as a result."Google is a very important business partner for the music industry: not just YouTube, but Google Play too. We want to work with Google growing the audience around music and monetising that music with them," said Taylor."On search results, we still believe there's a lot more for them to do to be supporting real music and legal services ahead of sites that they know to be illegal. They need to think hard about their position on that. We want to encourage them to improve their search results so consumers are directed to legal sites, not sites full of malware and porn."On YouTube's music potential, at least, the BPI and Google can find agreement. And withYouTube rumoured to be launching a subscription-based music servicelater this year, that role as a business partner for the British music industry may soon be strengthened even more.
A burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamBack to the future &gt;&gt; Vine blogToday, we're introducing powerful additions to the Vine camera: Sessions and Time Travel. With these new features, you can maintain multiple posts in progress over time and edit your posts before you share them.Court: Studies understated Samsung health hazards &gt;&gt; www.ktvu.comAssociated Press report:A South Korean court said studies conducted to evaluate safety at Samsung chip factories failed to fully examine workplace health hazards, undermining the electronics giant's efforts to distance itself from claims that its manufacturing plants caused fatal cancers.The finding by the Seoul Administrative Court was part of a ruling in the case of a Samsung Electronics Co. worker who died of leukemia in 2009 aged 29.A panel of three judges said Friday that a "considerable causal relationship" existed between Kim Kyung-mi's leukemia and her five years of work at a Samsung memory chip factory, dipping wafers in chemicals.HP: Yes, we plan to axe another 7,100 European staffers &gt;&gt; The ChannelPaul Kunert:The HP European Alliance, a regional body made up of trade unions, has written to each of the brothers at a country level to inform them of the latest communication from HP.The letter, seen by us, stated that of the latest 7,095, some 6,000 would come from Enterprise Services and 340 in Customer Delivery Services (CDS).HP CDS staffers – there are 130 in the UK – threatened industrial action during the summer after rejecting pay rises. Enterprise Services employs about 35,000 people in Europe, say our sources."On average this is 18 per cent for ITO and 17 per cent for applications. One wonders why HP ever bought EDS, just for firing the people?" the HP European Alliance questioned.It added that HP was "refusing" to provide national figures for job cuts to the European Works Council (EWC).In the UK, Unite and the PCS estimated that some 1,600 HPers or 8% of the 20,000 strong workforce would be handed their P45s.A Mini for the Max &gt;&gt; NPD GroupStephen Baker on the US tablet market:While Amazon just launched, we have a few months of history for Google to dwell upon. For them the strategy has not yet proven itself. The Nexus at $229 saw a strong start but sales slowed in September, especially when compared to the $199 Nexus of 2012. The question is whether a Mini at $299 is competitive enough to continue to capture the small size market, and whether the $399 Retina Mini is a compelling enough product to allow Apple to maintain its lead in the under 9 inch segment - a lead that is much more tenuous than we track in the larger size tablets.The betting here is that the positives outweigh the negatives and the $299 Mini will be a rousing success, and the new $399 revamped Mini with a retina display, is just strong enough to keep the volumes balanced.He'll also tell you which is the best-selling large tablet. Nexus 10, 2012's iPad 4 or the iPad 2? Have a guess.Xiaomi: the Apple (… and Netflix) of China &gt;&gt; Flurry blogSince its first smartphone launch in August 2011, Xiaomi has been on a growth tear in its native China. Based on devices tracked by Flurry, Xiaomi's installed base of phones has quadrupled since the third quarter last year. In a previous research report, Flurry reported that Xiaomi has become a serious challenger in the smartphone market capturing over 6% of the Chinese market, which is the largest smartphone market in the world. This is more than the market share of HTC and Lenovo and it happened in less than two years.Definitely one to watch when it comes out of China. (You'll recall that ex-Googler Hugo Barra is working there now.)After Apple 64-bit A7 criticism, Qualcomm exec reassigned &gt;&gt; CNET NewsA Qualcomm executive has been given a new role after making critical comments about Apple's 64-bit A7 chip."Anand Chandrasekher, is moving to a new role leading our exploration of certain enterprise related initiatives...Anand will continue to report to Steve Mollenkopf, COO and President of Qualcomm. This will be effective immediately," according to a statement Qualcomm sent to CNET.And he no longer appears on the Qualcomm leadership page.Chandrasekher said earlier this month that Apple's 64-bit A7 chip is a "gimmick".Pretty certain this one wasn't down to a phone call from Steve Jobs.Building xnu for OS X 10.9 Mavericks &gt;&gt; ssen's blogThe OS X kernel source (xnu) has been released for OS X 10.9 Mavericks:here.Greater Manchester Data Synchronisation project &gt;&gt; FutureEverythingThe project will work with Manchester City Council, Salford City Council and Trafford Metropolitan Borough Council to create resources and toolkits based on these open datasets. It will also develop horizontal peer support structures across local authorities, place data experts, known as 'Code Fellows', in the partner authorities and create a joint datastore for the hosting of linked data, as well as organise a series of coding and data events. These code fellows will help identify the data, analyse the data quality, methods of release and ultimately make the data available programmatically.The UK has been a leader in open data; great to see it being rolled out further.iPads, price and self-selection &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansWhy is the 2012 iPad mini so expensive, when Apple could have cut its price to match the Nexus 7?What seems to be happening is that if you want the post-PC vision that Apple and Steve Jobs created, you probably buy an iPad, and Apple has a large majority of that market, and hence of the use of devices for that purpose. This isn't very surprising: the Android tablet app offer remains far behind the iPad in a way that the Android phone app offer does not.But there's also another proposition, a $75-$150 black generic Chinese Android tablet, half the price of a Nexus 7. That proposition is also selling in huge numbers, but it appears to come with a very different type of use.Why are people buying these? What are they being used for? They're mostly in China (that's the pink bar above) and emerging markets and in lower income groups in the west. And it seems that they're being used for a little bit of web, and a  bit of free gaming. Perhaps some book reading. And a LOT of video consumption. In fact, one might argue that for many buyers, these compete with TVs, not iPads, Nexuses and Tabs. But regardless of what they're being used for, they're not being used the way iPads are used. In effect, they are the featurephones of tablets.Look also at the graph in the post: the "Android tablet" market isn't as uniform as you might think.LG Electronics misses estimates on smartphone marketing &gt;&gt; BloombergLG's mobile division had a third-quarter operating loss of 79.7 billion won (£46.2m) on sales of 3.05 trillion won (£1.77bn). Smartphone shipments in the quarter were 12m units.The Korean electronics maker is banking on the 5.2-inch G2 handset, unveiled at New York's Lincoln Center on 7 August, to boost sales. Andy Kim, senior vice president of marketing at LG's mobile unit, said marketing costs for the G2 device were the biggest in company history.LG captured 5.3 percent share and maintained its position as the world's No. 3 smartphone seller in the three months ended June 30, market researcher Strategy Analyticssaid in a 26 July report.Still only two companies making any real profit in smartphones: Apple and Samsung.Untouchable &gt;&gt; Jared SinclairiOS 7's designers have abandoned bordered buttons in favor of borderless colored text. I think this choice is unjustifiable. It is the root cause of my deep dislike for how it feels to use iOS 7. It introduces unnecessary tension and makes everything less usable than it ought to be.Color alone simply cannot be the way to identify a button. You don't touch a color. You touch an area. To activate a button, you must touch a spot inside of its boundary. Text floating in the middle of vast whitespace doesn't define a boundary. Only borders define boundaries.A strong argument, well made.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Here it is: the Surface Pro 2 is Microsoft&apos;s second stab at its tablet-laptop hybrid running full Windows 8.1. It&apos;s an improvement on its predecessor – but still caught in no-man&apos;s land.The basics: it is a full 10.6in laptop PC condensed into a tablet with the keyboard removed; complete with Microsoft&apos;s new Windows 8.1 tiled Start Screen, plus a full traditional Windows desktop, unlike the company&apos;s Surface 2 (Windows RT 8.1-based) tablet.You say &quot;tablet? But there&apos;s a keyboard in the picture&quot;. There is. It&apos;s a paid extra costing £100/$120 for the Touch Cover 2, and £110/$130 for the Type Cover 2.In theory, the Surface Pro 2 could just be used as a tablet. In practice, buy the keyboard, unless you&apos;re just going to use it to draw on, otherwise you might as well get the Surface 2 or an iPad.Design: a solid and light… laptopThe Microsoft Surface Pro 2 continues the solid build quality its predecessor had, giving it a premium feel. The body of the tablet is well machined, with no sharp edges and no flex within the body.While the Surface Pro 2 is thick for a tablet at 1.35cm deep, it is thinner than a most laptops, including the 11in MacBook Air (1.7cm).It&apos;s also comparatively light for a full computer at 907g in weight (the MacBook Air is 1080g) but it&apos;s significantly heavier than the new 469g iPad Air.Unlike the new Surface 2, the Surface Pro 2 is only available in a &quot;dark titanium&quot; black, with paint coating the magnesium body.Microsoft Surface Pro 2: now with a two-angle kickstand.The back of the Surface Pro 2 sports a kickstand, which supports two angles. This makes using it on a desk or your lap a lot easier than the original Surface Pro, which only had a single angle that was ideal for sitting at a large uncluttered table, but not airline seats or, indeed, laps.A thumb-wide bezel around the screen makes it easy to hold without activating the touchscreen.The Surface Pro 2 has the same sharp and bright high-resolution 1080p 10.6in screen as the Surface 2 and original Surface Pro: text is crisp and easily legible on websites and ebooks.The screen also has good viewing angles, making sharing video with others easy, while decent blacks and colour range make said video look great.SpecificationsScreen:10.6in full HD 1080p LCDProcessor:1.6GHz dual-core Intel Core i5 &quot;Haswell&quot; (4200U)RAM:4GB or 8GB dependent on storage versionStorage:64/128/256/512GB SSD plus microSDXC slotGraphics:Intel HD 4400Operating system:Windows 8.1Connectivity:Wi-Fi, Bluetooth 4.0 with BLE, Compass, USB 3.0, MiniDisplayPortCameras:720p front and rear-facing camerasDimensions:275 x 173 x 13.5mmWeight:907gHardware: powerful enough for basically anythingMicrosoft has given the Surface Pro 2 Intel&apos;s latest &quot;Haswell&quot; Core i5 processor, which means it has plenty of power for almost anything you could throw at it, short of high-end graphically intensive gaming. It will breeze through Office duties, listening to music, watching videos and web browsing.It boots from sleep or off pretty fast for a PC – but not quite as instantly as an ARM-based tablet such as the Surface 2 or Apple&apos;s iPad.Like a laptop, but unlike most other tablets like the iPad or Google’s Nexus line, the Surface Pro 2 comes with a full-sized USB 3.0 port, which makes connecting to external devices and storage as easy as it is on a desktop or laptop computer.The Surface Pro 2 can also connect to a monitor via Mini DisplayPort to display movies or make it second screen for work, while a docking station will be available at a later date to turn the tablet into a desktop-hybrid that you can just pick up and go when the work is done.Microsoft also reckons the Surface Pro 2 has a 75% improvement over the original Surface Pro in battery life thanks to the power-sipping Intel Haswell processor. It is rated at around 8 hours of video playback, which by my testing seems accurate; enough for a normal day&apos;s usage and only slightly less than other 11in laptops like the MacBook Air&apos;s 9-hour battery.Software: Windows 8.1, plus a tiny desktopThe Surface Pro 2 runs Microsoft&apos;s full PC variant of Windows 8.1, which ditched the classic Windows start button for a new tiled, start screen with Windows 8, but has since been tweaked to add a psudo start button back to the desktop.For a rundown of the modifications and enhancements Microsoft&apos;s made to Windows 8.1, read ourfull Windows 8.1 review.For the most part Windows 8.1 works very well. Its touch-driven interface suits a 10in tablet screen, with big, bold icons to on which to tap while using the start screen.If you&apos;re using Windows 8.1 apps downloaded from the Windows Store, rather than traditional desktop Windows apps, which could run on Windows 7 for instance, most tasks are completed by swiping gestures, with hidden bars for things like browser tabs and the address bar accessible with a swipe up from the bottom. Likewise the options menus with settings and search are accessible with a swipe from the right-hand side of the screen.Once you understand that menus and actions are generally hidden off the edges of the screen, the interface becomes fairly intuitive, and makes good use of the screen real estate available on a 10in screen.Since Windows 8, Microsoft’s added better window management, which makes multitasking on the Surface Pro 2 within Windows Store apps a really great experience.Up to three Windows can be open and onscreen at any one time, arranged in resizable panes arranged side-by-side when the tablet is held in landscape. It means, for instance, that you can be browsing the internet while still having your Twitter feed accessible at a glance on one side of the screen.Microsoft Surface Pro 2 - Windows 8.1.Likewise, if you’re reading email, you can launch attached photos directly into the photo browser in another pane and still see your email while you flick through them.It is a very solid, and effortless, experience. Some windows come predefined with an optimum width when launched, but they are all resizable by just dragging the vertical bars separating each app on the screen.In fact, it is so good that when you switch to the traditional Windows desktop, which still exists within Windows 8.1, the difference is really quite jarring. This is when you realise how difficult to use a high-resolution 1080p 10.6in screen when the operating system can&apos;t scale elements within the user interface such as text, pictures and – crucially – dialogue boxes.Microsoft has included magnification options, but instead of true scaling, the operating system just expands existing objects. While the text scales nicely and remains pin-sharp, everything else, including icons and other interface elements, looks blurry and low resolution.Removing the magnification, which defaults to 150%, makes dialogue boxes tiny, difficult to read, and most importantly, almost impossible to tap on accurately.It is bearable when using the Surface Pro 2 as a desktop with a mouse, or with the included stylus - although you’ll still have to squint - but not when using the tablet with your fingers.StylusAs with the previous generation Surface Pro, the Surface Pro 2 comes equipped with a pressure-sensitive stylus allowing drawing on the screen as well as note taking. Like most Wacom-style stylus and tablets, the Surface Pro 2’s stylus is highly accurate and can be used as a mouse replacement, with a button for secondary options on the side as well as a button on the end that acts as an eraser for your screen drawing.The stylus can also be used with Microsoft’s impressive handwriting recognition, which can replace a virtual keyboard. It recognised even my most scrawled handwriting, as well the hurried scribbles of – apart from a left-handed writer, as his hand kept touching the main section of the screen and so dismissing the handwriting recognition panel.When not in use the stylus can be attached to the magnetic power port connector, but unfortunately its magnetic lock isn’t particularly strong and almost always falls off if the tablet is stored in a bag, making it easy to lose. The stylus also cannot activate the Windows button below the screen, which is a strange omission; you&apos;ll still need to use your finger there.CameraThe Surface Pro 2 has two 720p HD cameras, one on the front mounted just above the screen and one on the rear of the tablet. Both work fine for video chatting duties, but are pretty mediocre as 0.9-megapixel still cameras.Keyboard: fantastic accessoriesLike the new Surface 2, the Surface Pro 2 has a range of accessories of which the black, backlit Touch Cover 2 is the most notable.Unfortunately it doesn’t come in the box with the Surface Pro 2, despite the machine’s price tag. But it extends the usability of the tablet by providing a full-sized touch keyboard turning it into a PC laptop and attaches to the bottom of the Surface Pro 2 by a strong magnetic clasp.While the keys don’t physically move, they are touch-sensitive and provide enough tactile feedback to allow for touch-typing.Below the keyboard is a trackpad, for when touching the screen with your finger isn’t accurate enough and you don’t want to resort to the stylus or you need a traditional mousing setup for productivity like selecting text.When not in use, the Touch Cover 2 provides a hard cover for the screen, and will automatically put the Surface Pro 2 to sleep. It’s only 2.75mm thin, so won’t add bulk to the tablet.Microsoft Windows - Touch Cover 2 keyboard.Microsoft will also offer the Type Cover 2, which acts like the Touch Cover 2, but has slim-profile traditional Chiclet keyboard keys with a very small amount of travel, and the Power Cover, which adds a battery to the Type Cover 2 to extend the battery life of the Surface Pro 2 by 2.5-times, according to Microsoft.A docking station will also be available for the Surface Pro 2 in early 2014. This locks the tablet upright and provides power as well as ports: one USB 3, two USB 2, Ethernet, DisplayPort and headphone and microphone ports, to turn the Surface Pro 2 into a pseudo-desktop PC.Pricing: that&apos;s not a tablet, it&apos;s a laptopThe Surface Pro 2 is available in four storage variations: 64GB for £719/$899; 128GB for £799/$999; 256GB for £1039/$1299, and 512GB for £1439/$1799, although the 512GB variant will be available in limited quantities only.Bear in mind that - as said above - you&apos;ll need to add £100/$120 for the Touch Cover 2, and £110/$130 for the Type Cover 2.So that&apos;s £819/$1019 for the base 64GB model. Apple is selling its new MacBook Air for £849/$999, but that&apos;s 128GB. Throw in a copy of Windows 8 (which you could put on the MacBook Air), and you&apos;d be slightly poorer, but ahead on storage, battery life and ports.Microsoft has also bundled two years’ worth of 200GB SkyDrive cloud storage, as well as 60 minutes of Skype calling to worldwide landlines for a year with each new Surface Pro 2.Verdict: a touch too much futureThe Microsoft Surface 2 is caught in a halfway house. Like its predecessor, it is a very capable machine. But as a tablet, it doesn’t perform as well as other ARM-based devices like the iPad; as a laptop, it doesn&apos;t do as well as dedicated ones.With one of the accessory keyboards like the Touch Cover 2 the Surface Pro 2 is turned into laptop surrogate, which works fine on a desk, but the lack of a rigid structure holding the screen in place makes it hard to use on your lap like a traditional laptop.The biggest problem with the Surface Pro 2, however, is the lack of a suitable high-quality scaling system within Windows 8.1 on the traditional desktop. You are stuck with either tiny text and dialogue boxes, or big text with a blurry, blown-up user interface.Overall, the Surface 2 is a solid device in want of a market. At some point down the road, this kind of full PC tablet device will certainly be a more appealing option, but a halfway house which is neither as good as a dedicated laptop, nor a dedicated tablet starting at £719 without a keyboard is difficult to recommend right now.Star rating: 3/5Pros:Great screen, decent battery life, excellent stylus, solid build quality, powerful processorCons:Heavy, startup isn’t instant, tiny or blurred Windows desktop, expensive
Twitter set out fresh details of its share sale on Thursday, valuing itself at $11bn. In a regulatory filing, Twitter set a range of $17 to $20 for the shares it will sell in the initial public offering (IPO). The sale is expected to raise up to $1.6bn and looks set for 6 November.Twitter's share sale is the most hotly-anticipated tech company IPO since Facebook's, last May. That IPO proved a disaster – it has taken Facebook close to a year for its share price to pass the $38 it originally sold for.Twitter's $11bn valuation is far below Facebook's $81.2bn. Facebook sold 421 million shares at its IPO, making it one of the largest tech share sales ever. It is now valued at $127bn.Twitter is planning on selling 70m shares, although this number is likely to increase if investors show appetite for the company during its "roadshow".The sale price is lower than the $15bn some analysts had been expecting. Twitter valued itself at $20.62 a share in September. The price cut comes after the company warned that its growth could slow.Twitter may still revise the price upwards – as Facebook did – and it will not have to set a final price for the sale until the night before it begins trading. But no matter what the final price, the sale will still be a bonanza for some of Silicon Valley's biggest names.The Twitter co-founder Jack Dorsey looks set to add between $300m and $450m to his fortune. Dorsey holds a reported 3% stake in the company. Other notable backers include Amazon founder Jeff Bezos and the Netscape co-founder Marc Andreessen.Earlier this month, Twitter announced it had nearly 232m monthly active users in the third quarter, a 39% increase over last year. Three-quarters of those users accessed Twitter via mobile devices, and mobile ads brought in 70% of its total advertising revenue. Mobile ad growth is seen as key by investors.However, Twitter is not profitable, and has been spending massively in order to keep ahead of competitors. In its first public financial statement, Twitter announced it had tripled its income in 2012 to $316.9m, but still lost $79.4m.The company has been beefing up its advertising offer and recently bought MoPub, a company that manages mobile ad sales, for $300m. It is also hiring to reinforce its news content – the site has established itself as a prime source for breaking news. On Thursday Vivian Schiller, NBC News senior vice-president and chief digital officer, announced she would be joining Twitter as head of news.The Twitter news came as a veteran tech giant, Microsoft, comfortably beat analysts' expectations. For the quarter ending 30 September, Microsoft reported a profit of $5.24bn, up from $4.47bn or 53¢ a share a year earlier.Microsoft is looking for a new chief executive officer, after announcing the retirement of longtime boss Steve Ballmer. Analysts have worried about the shrinking number of personal computer sales. Revenue from products sold to consumers grew 4.2%, but software and other services sold to corporations – an area known as enterprise – revenues rose by 9.8%."Our devices and services transformation is progressing," Ballmer said in a statement. "We saw strong focus across our teams, generating record first-quarter revenue even as we navigate a fundamental business transition."The company made no comment on who is to replace Ballmer. Shares rose 6% in after-hours trading on the strong results.
The organisers of the annualGameCity prizehave announced the shortlist for this year's award. Seven titles are up for the prestigious commendation, which last year was won by mystical PlayStation adventure, Journey. The diverse selection includes post-apocalyptic PlayStation 3 thriller, The Last of Us, offbeat co-op game, Space Team, musical PlayStation Vita platformer, Sound Shapes, and football simulation, Fifa 13. Indie sci-fi strategy sims, FTL and XCOM, and minimalist narrative platformer, Thomas Was Alone, completed the list.At an announcement event during the GameCity festival in Nottingham on Thursday night, the jury for the award was also revealed. As with previous years, the selection includes a range of figures from the wider media world. Returning for a second year are writer and broadcaster, Samira Ahmed and actor Louise Brealey. There are also four newcomers: Channel 4's commissioning editor for arts, Tabitha Jackson; professor Uta Frith, a development psychologist at UCL, specialising in autism and dyslexia; education consultant, Phil Beadle; and artist Dinos Chapman, a keen gamer."We have told the judges they must now pick a game that they would show to someone who had never seen a game before. We want a winner that demonstrates what games are all about," said event director, Iain Simons."It's very exciting," said Mike Bithell, the UK developer of entrant, Thomas Was Alone, "I'm just really intrigued to find out what the judges make ofallthe games."The winner will be announced at the end of November.
Life in Los Santos is never predictable – on the streets of Grand Theft Auto V's crime-ridden cityscape, there is always some underworld villain looking to bring you down. This week, however, the criminal activity seeped out of the virtual world into the real one. On Monday,PC news site WCCFTech reportedthat thousands of eager gamers had been taken in by a fake file distributed on torrent sites, which appeared to be a leaked PC version of GTA V, but was actually a great big bundle of malware.Site metrics and Seed Ratio reveal that this particular torrent has been downloaded well into the thousands. The setup file is a realistic 18GB and has an actual setup.exe file, one that works. Basically a malicious replica of the original setup file, this one doesnt give out any hint of malicious activity.AsCNET later reported:The file looks legit, appearing near the top of Google search results, and nearly 7,000 users connected; however, appearing as a setup.exe file, the first clue that something could be awry is the file size 18.3GB, compared to 7.7GB for the Xbox 360 version.Of course, what should have alerted eager GTA fans was the fact that Rockstar is yet to even announce a PC version of the hit console title.Rumours suggestthat a conversion could arrive in spring 2014, and there is clearly demand –an online survey requesting a PC versionnow has more than 600,000 signatures. If life in GTA has taught us anything it's that, where there is demand, there is criminal exploitation.Meanwhile, GTA Online is still undergoing tweaks as Rockstar continues to balance the twitchy economy. Late last week a new patch updated various issues with the troubled multiplayer mode, but also halved the amount gamers could make from repeat missions.According to GameSpot, the publisher explained he decision thus: "We understand players do like to enjoy a mission multiple times, so rather than remove the possibility of doing so, we've allowed replays of these missions at a reduced payout. Many players can get very good at a mission and beat it much faster in consecutive tries, so we've adjusted these payouts to match that case."The problem Rockstar has is the need to gently lead gamers away from turning the mode into a grind-fest, without making it look like a way to nudge them toward micro transactions. But responses have been… mixed. Beneaththe announcement on the GTA support site LocoWithGun writes: "To be honest missions are rather worthless now. Maybe I'll do the occasional Base Invaders that comes my way but that's about it. There was already a huge trouble getting anyone to join your mission ... newbies are never going to get anyone to play with them now."On the plus side, it seemsthe promised "stimulus package"will arrive this week, giving GTA Online veterans a major free cash boost to the tune of $500,000. Rockstar is also preparing to launch new features, whichaccording to its Newswire siteincludes a DLC package named Beach Bum pack (lots of new beach ware for characters, plus four new beach vehicles) and a content creator that allows players more breadth to design and run their own personalised death match and race events. More exciting, though, will be the launch of more in-depth Heist missions, requiring tactical co-op play. Players getting tired of pummelling through street jobs and grinding high-paying errands from Gerald will be pleased to try out something a little more complex.But PC owners will have to wait, or risk an unwanted mission to rid their hard drive of malware.
The image-sharing social website Pinterest has closed its most recent round of fundraising with a $3.8bn valuation, though it has yet to generate revenue.The company announced on Wednesday that it has raised $225m in its most recent funding round and that the funds will be used to test new monetization models, to expand internationally and to improve infrastructure.Fidelity led a group of venture capital investors in the deal, including Bessemer Venture Partners, Firstmark Capital, Valiant Capital Management and Andreessen Horowitz.Pinterest announced in September that it was testinga native advertising scheme that allows companies to promote pins. It has also attempted to make money through a mildly controversial system which collects “affiliate” payments on purchases made through external links posted on the site.&quot;We hope to be a service that everyone uses to inspire their future, whether that&apos;s dinner tomorrow night, a vacation next summer, or a dream house someday,&quot; Pinterest co-founder and chief executive Ben Silbermann said in a statement. &quot;This new investment enables us to pursue that goal even more aggressively.&quot;In February, when it secured $200m in funding,Pinterest was valued at $2.5bn. On Thursday it said the new funds would be used to expand the experimental advertising scheme as a “global program” and to help the company expand into 10 more countries before the end of the year. The three-year-old company said it would also direct funds to improve its mobile products, which account for more than 75% of the site’s usage.ComScore said in February that Pinterest had 48.7 million users globally.The San Francisco-based companydescribes itselfas a place where “no matter what you’re interested in, there’s a place for it here”. Typical content includes graphic design, simple recipes and hobbit safety videos.The site, which has been criticised for its ambiguous photo protections, changed its terms of service language in March 2012, to remove its right to sell uploaded content.It also said it would make it easier for people to report potential copyright infringement.Pinterest’s newest valuation round comes as the social-networking behemoths Twitter and Facebook assess their performance as publicly traded companies. Facebook raised $16bn before going public in May 2012.More than a year passed before the company’s stock reached its IPO value, of $38, in August. Twitter filed for an initial public offering last month andsaid it expected to raise $1bn from a share sale.
Taiwan&apos;s Fair Trade Commission on Thursday fined the local unit of South Korea&apos;s SamsungElectronics NT$10m (£212,000/$340,000) for organising an &quot;astroturfing&quot; campaign to denigrate smartphone rival HTC.In a notice on its website, the consumer protection body said that Samsung had organized an Internet campaign in violation of fair trade rules to praise Samsung smartphones while slamming those of HTC.The incidents first surfaced in April, when the Taiwan FTCsaidthat it would investigate the matter after receiving complaints. The United Evening News in Taiwan said at the time that students had been hired through Samsung&apos;s local agent to write online articles attacking HTC and recommending Samsung phones.At the time Samsung posted on its Facebook page that it regretted &quot;any inconvenience and confusion from the Internet event&quot; and that &quot;Samsung Taiwan has halted all Internet marketing such as posting articles on website.&quot;The fine imposed was less than half the maximum NT$25m that could have been levied.The FTC also handed out smaller fines on two Taiwanese trading companies it said were responsible for mounting the online campaign.Earlier this year the FTC fined Samsung NT$300,000 for misleading advertising about the camera functions on its Galaxy Y Duos GT-S6102 phone.The FTC action comes with HTC badly on the defensive amid disappointing sales for its once popular smartphones.The company, which posted its first quarterly loss in the July-September period, has suffered a drop in its global smartphone market share from a high of 10.3% in the third quarter of 2011 to only 2.6% in the third quarter of 2013.
Corporate raider Carl Icahn stepped up pressure on Apple to hand back $150bn to shareholders on Thursday, when he published a letter to CEO Tim Cook on Shareholders' Square Table, a website he launched to promote shareholder activism.Icahn and Cook met for dinner at the end of September after the investor disclosed he had bought 3.8m Apple shares and was calling for a $150bn share buyback. Apple chief financial officer Peter Oppenheimer has described the meeting as "cordial."In the letter, Icahn disclosed that he now owns 4.7m Apple shares, which represent 0.5% of the company and are worth $2.5bn. The additional share purchase reflects "our belief the market continues to dramatically undervalue the company, even when taking into account the recent market appreciation," wrote Icahn."The criticism we have as shareholders has nothing to do with your management leadership or operational strategy. Our criticism relates to one thing only: the size and timeframe of Apple's buyback program. It is obvious to us that it should be much bigger and immediate," he said.Apple is currently sitting on a cash pile totaling more than $147bn. The enormous sum is equivalent to almost 10% of all the corporate cash held by non-financial companies in the US, according to an analysis by Moody's. More than $100bn of that money is held overseas and would be subject to taxation if brought back into the US, a fact that sparked acongressional hearingon the company's tax strategies earlier this year.In the letter, dated 23 October, Icahn suggested that Apple borrow the money to buy back shares. The scheme would give an immediate boost to Apple's stock, which is currently priced at $525, Icahn argued. "Longer-term (in three years), if you execute this buyback as proposed, we expect the share price to appreciate to $1,250," he wrote.Icahn said he would not sell his shares if there was a buyback. "There is nothing short-term about my intentions here," he wrote.Apple will reveal the latest sales numbers for its high-profile products like iPads and iPhones on Monday, when it releases its results for the last quarter.In an event earlier this week in which he unveiled upgrades to products including the iPad Mini and the new iPad Air, Cook revealed that the company had sold its 170 millionth iPad in October. Analysts estimate Apple shipped around 14.9m iPads during the last quarter, up from 14m iPads sold during the same time last year. The company will also update investors about sales of its new iPhone 5S and iPhone 5C.Colin Gillis, a technology analyst at BGC Partners, said Apple was already handing back $100m to shareholders through a buyback and an increase in dividend payments, and warned that taking on debt the way Icahn is proposing has risks."The fortunes of technology companies can change very quickly. Just look at BlackBerry," he said.Gillis said he would rather see Apple do something to fuel growth, and suggested it could buy Tesla, the electric car company, or look for other opportunities to expand its business. "The worst thing they can do is just let it pile up on their balance sheet," he said.Icahn has built a $20bn fortune from a series of often hostile takeovers, and clashed with US business leaders at companies including Time Warner and the now-defunct airline TWA. Most recently, he lost out on an attempt to block Dell founder Michael Dell from taking the struggling computer firm private.
It's been nearly two years since your"best laptop for a child"article so I wondered what your current advice is?Our son is autistic and struggles to write with a pen but has been quite energised by learning to touch type. We have promised him a laptop as a reward for completing the course but are not sure which is best. He will use it primarily for school work but also to play Minecraft, which is a bit of an obsession. I don't want him complaining of 'lag' as this will cause him anxiety.We were looking mainly at netbook-size machines as he is eight, but I looked at your recommended Asus 200E and the screen seems too small, so now we're looking at the Samsung Activbook 9, Acer Aspire S7 and Lenovo U330. Or another? We were hoping not to pay over £300 but are flexible if you advise to go for a higher spec.EdIt looks as though the "best laptop for a child" market has been overtaken by the "best tablet for a child" market, particularly for younger children. This has been reinforced by the decline of the netbook market, with Microsoft killing off Windows XP and declining to provide an ultra low cost version of Windows 8 to run on them. Indeed, it looks as though Arm-based tablets, laptops and hybrids running Windows RT are Microsoft's preferred solution for this market, though the market has yet to agree.At the moment, hybrids like the Dell Venue 11 Pro, or the smaller Venue 8 Pro, look ideal for kids, because they work as both tablets and laptops. They are much like the Microsoft Surface Pro but cheaper because Intel Atom-powered. In your case, a tablet/hybrid is probably not the best solution. You're looking for a laptop that will help your son to exploit his new typing skills and play Minecraft, and presumably other games.Minecraft is a Java program, which enables it to run on different platforms: Microsoft Windows, Mac OS X and Linux. There's also anXbox 360version and aPocket Editionfor Apple's iOS and Google Android. Unfortunately, Java programs have a reputation for being slow – deservedly, in my experience – which suggests getting the fastest PC you can afford.Laptops for MinecraftI did a few searches to find the best laptop for running Minecraft. It seems to be a hot topic but one where there's no consensus. There's not even much useful information to be gained from Gamepedia'suser benchmarksbeyond the obvious point that the results are extremely variable. However, the Minecraft Support Center's"recommended system"makes it clear that the processor is less important than the graphics card. For the processor, it recommends an "Intel Pentium D or AMD Athlon 64 (K8) 2.6 GHz" – a low bar – while for the graphics it recommends a "GeForce 6xxx or ATI Radeon 9xxx and up with OpenGL 2.1 Support (Excluding Integrated Chipsets)".The Support Center adds: "If you have a laptop with a built-in (integrated) graphics card, rather than a dedicated card, it is highly suggested that you try thedemobefore purchase."The problem is that most cheap laptops have integrated graphics, not dedicated graphics cards. Intel HD3000 integrated graphics are probably enough on a desktop PC, but HD3000 integrated graphics are much less capable on slow, mobile processors. I wouldn't want to recommend this without trying one.A processor with HD4000 integrated graphics would be a better bet, which means a third-generation Intel Core iX chip, code-named Sandy Bridge. However, asNotebookcheckwarns: "Depending on the processor model, the base and turbo clock rate may differ greatly resulting in different graphics performance of ULV parts compared to high end quad-core parts."In other words, HD4000 in mobile or ultra-low voltage (ULV) chips is not going to perform as well as HD4000 in fast but hot desktop processors. A thin Ultrabook designed for low battery life and minimal fan use will probably not be the best choice.Some optionsThe cheapest Core-based laptop I can see with HD4000 graphics is a 15.6-inch Asus X550CA-XO266H with a 1.4GHz Core i3, 4GB of memory and a 500GB hard drive for£364.39 at Amazon.co.uk, or £585.10 with a Core i5. If you're going to spend that much on a PC with Intel integrated graphics, then the red Asus K55A-SX376H would be a better option. That gets you a much faster 2.5GHz Intel Core i5-3210M with 6GB or memory and a 500GB hard drive for£498.The Core i5 also has a SpeedStep feature – which increases the clock speed when needed – that the Core i3 lacks.The Lenovo U330, which you mention, has a fourth-generation Haswell processor, a Core i5-4200U, but it has a slower clock speed (1.6GHz) and the same HD4000 graphics for a higher price:£634.53. It's a nicer laptop and has a touch screen, but I wouldn't expect it to run Minecraft better. The Core i5-4200U provides better battery life, but it's not as fast as a Core i3-3110M or even a Pentium G860.The Samsung ATIV Book 9 Lite, which you also mention, is best avoided for your son's purposes. It's attractive as a cheap Ultrabook with an SSD (solid-state disk) drive. However, the 1GHz-1.4GHz AMD A6-1450 processor is designed for very low power consumption (8W) and it's extremely slow. A modern Celeron or Pentium chip, such as the 987, would be faster. (PC Pro has areview.)Laptops with graphics cardsStepping up to laptop with a built-in graphics card, as recommended for Minecraft, usually involves a step up in price, and a dramatic reduction in the number of options available. However, HP, Dell and some other firms have more affordable options.For example, the 14in HP EliteBook 8460p has a 2.5GHz Intel Core i5-2520M processor, 4GB of memory and a fast (7200rpm) 320GB hard drive. The second-generation processor is saved by the Radeon HD 6470M graphics with 1GB of memory. The Amazon price is£599.99, which is twice your preferred budget.The EliteBook 8460p ships with 64-bit Windows 7 Professional, but check if this includes Windows 8. Business laptops are sold with Windows 8 Pro, partly because this includes downgrade rights to Windows 7 Pro, which is the business standard. This means there's a "free" upgrade to Windows 8 if required. (I notice that Acer is shipping business laptops in the UK with both Windows 7 Pro and Windows 8 Pro, so you can choose which you want when you set it up.)There's also theDell Inspiron 15R Special Edition, which seems to be aimed at the back-to-school market. This has a third-generation 2.6GHz Core i5-3230M with 4GB of memory, plus aRadeon HD 7730Mgraphics card with its own 2GB of memory, for £499, including a year's in-home service.The Inspiron 15 is big and a bit clunky – my son has owned two of them, and I bought the first – but they are generally good value workhorses.The best value I can find today is the Fujitsu Lifebook AH532. This has a 2.4GHz Core i3-3110M processor with 4GB of memory and an Nvidia GeForce GT 620M graphics card with 1GB of memory for£374.94, as sold by Amazon. The normal price seems to be around £470. However, I've never seen this machine, and it would be a good idea to read a fewreviews. Get a hands-on if you can.If you search for laptops with (roughly) 2GHz or faster Intel Core i3 or i5 processors with HD4000 graphics and/or dedicated Nvidia GeForce or AMD/ATI Radeon graphics, then you may be able to find something better.This spec should be capable of running Minecraft reasonably well, though not with the highest frame rates, and probably not with the Fancy graphics option turned on.Incidentally, you asked for a laptop, but a desktop is usually a better option for gaming. Desktop processors can be run hot, often from 95W (like my Core i5-2500K) to 130W, whereas laptops are trending down from 35W to 15W or less. This meansa cheap desktop processor can often outperform a "higher spec" laptop chip. A desktop tower case also provides room for high-powered but relatively cheap graphics cards, which are very easy to upgrade. Finally, you can fit a much better keyboard and a bigger screen.
Google is testing banner ads on web search results - reneging on a 2005 promise that &quot;there will be no banner ads on the Google homepage or web search results page… Ever.&quot;The company confirmed to the Guardian that it is testing a system with about 30 advertisers in the US in which it shows banner ads for companies including SouthWest Airlines on pages which include them in web search results.The ads can take over large parts of the screen.Google banner ad for SouthWest Airlines in 2013: the company promised in 2005 that it would 'never' show such ads with search results. Photograph: /Public domainYetwriting in December 2005, the then head of search and user experience Marissa Mayer insisted that following a tieup to provide search for AOL, that besides never providing &quot;biased&quot; results, &quot;There will be no banner ads on the Google homepage or web search results pages. There will not be crazy, flashy, graphical doodads flying and popping up all over the Google site. Ever.&quot;Asked why Google had gone back on that clear promise, Google said in a statement that &quot;We&apos;re currently running a very limited, US-only test, in which advertisers can include an image as part of the search ads that show in response to certain branded queries.&quot;Google&apos;s decision to start showing banner ads is a repudiation of many of its founding principles. The company gained attention when it started in 1998 because its opening search page, and following results page, was uncluttered by adverts and other elements - and especially banner ads. In 2000 Google&apos;s founder Larry Page and Sergey Brin were offered $3m by Visa to display an ad for the credit card company on the site homepage - and turned it down, even though the site was losing money at the time.Since then the front page has never been used to advertise anything - apart from Google products and Red Cross drives.Google&apos;s move comes as the company, which depends on its AdWords product - shown beside searches - for around three-quarters of its gross revenues, has seen eroding prices in the amount advertisers are willing to pay for ads. It offset that by boosting the volume of ads, helping it to record revenues and profits. That thendrove its share price above the $1,000 mark.Google declined to say how long the test will run for, when it might be extended outside the US, or what the criteria for success - or failure - would be.A spokesperson added that &quot;Advertisers have long been able to add informative visual elements to their search ads, with features likeMedia Ads&quot; - which adds video ads on Google search results page -Product Listing Ads&quot; - which appear in Google&apos;s shopping results box - &quot;andImage Extensions&quot;, which allows advertisers to put small images alongside &quot;sponsored results&quot;, when they buy advertising space over search results.Arguably Mayer&apos;s promise about &quot;graphical doodads&quot; was broken just over four years later, in January 2010, by the introduction of thefirst animated Google Doodleto celebrate Isaac Newton&apos;s birthday. That however was not an advertisement.Google said that it won&apos;t be charging more for the banner ads - which take up large parts of the screen: &quot;they are part of AdWords&quot;, its advertising scheme which normally puts text adverts in a box beside the &quot;organic&quot; search results, which are meant to represent the links&apos; relevance to the user&apos;s query.
A long-running argument over whether the Wikileaks source should be called Bradley or Chelsea Manning in Wikipedia has caused a split among some of its most senior editors.The arbitration committee – in effect the site’s supreme court – has banned a number of editors from working on articles related to transgender topics or individuals. But while some of those editors were banned for making transphobic comments about Manning, others were given the same punishment for pointing out the bigotry in the first place. As a result, the site been criticised by Trans Media Watch for implying that accusations of transphobia are as bad as actual incidents of transphobia. The online encyclopedia ultimately chose to use the name Chelsea.The committee’s statements were sparked by a heated argument between editors on the site over whether the article for Chelsea Manning, the Wikileaks source, should exist under her preferred name or under “Bradley Manning”, the name she was using before she came out as transgender in August 2013.Thearbitration committee, a group of senior editors elected by and from Wikipedia’s pool of volunteers which acts as the community’s court of last resort, was called in to make the final decision on which name should be at the top of Manning’s page.It also ruled on the behaviour of several editors who had taken part in the debate.Two were indefinitely banned from editing “all pages relating to any transgender topic or individual” over discriminatory speech. One, Hitmonchan,had written that“only when his testicles are ripped out of his scrotum … will I call Manning a &apos;she&apos;”, and the second, IFreedom1212,wrote, among other comments, that“he is clearly mentally unstable and his … desire to be called Chelsea should not be regarded with any merit&quot;.But other editors were also banned from editing trans-related articles after making accusations of transphobia. One of the banned editors, Josh Gorand, argued that Wikipedia’s requirement for consensus isn’t the only one on the site, and that the rules governing biographies of living persons, one of which is to use their preferred name, should also be taken into account. “Especially not a ‘consensus’ of virulently transphobic people who completely ignore Wikipedia policy. We don&apos;t move articles because some people hate transgendered people – it&apos;s that simple.”That statementwasoneoffourcited by the committee to demonstrate that Gorand was exhibiting a “battleground approach to the discussion” and to justify banning Gorand indefinitely from editing articles about any transgender topic or individual.“We feel that Wikipedia&apos;s banning of certain editors for calling people transphobic reflects a wider cultural problem whereby identifying someone is prejudiced is seen as worse than being prejudiced,” said Trans Media Watch in response to the bans. “If the arbitration committee thinks that &apos;transphobe&apos; is a slur, it might want to reflect on why that is.”“We would like to see Wikipedia demonstrate more self-awareness in its approach to social issues and more consistency in its treatment of cases like this. There are hundreds of pages on Wikipedia about notable people known by names other than their first names, yet we don&apos;t see this kind of fuss made in relation to those about, say, George Osborne or Jodie Foster, or even other trans people like Chaz Bono, who was also well known to the public under a different name.”Following Manning’s announcement, a heated argument broke out on the talk page of her article, where editors discuss potential changes. Wikipedia’s administrators, who are all elected from the general pool of editors on the site, decided that there wasn’t enough consensus for the page to be moved, and locked it under the name “Bradley Manning” pending a decision from the arbitration committee.But the editor who initially moved the page to Chelsea Manning, Morwen, argues that Wikipedia needs editors to make quick unilateral changes if it is to effectively cover living people. “The ruling has weakened our &apos;biographies of living people&apos; policy,” she says. “It will make editors more reluctant to take definitive action to remove libel, for example. This can&apos;t be a good thing. Personally, I don&apos;t think I&apos;m going to be editing about trans stuff in the future.”Author and Wikipedia editor Philip Sandifer, who was also involved in the argument, criticised the site’s rules for being “a techno-libertarian fantasy”. “The arbitration committee … looked at both sides of this debate and made the unequivocal decision that, in a debate between people trying to think seriously about the ethical considerations involved in being one of the largest websites in the world and a bunch of techno-libertarians playing WikiRules, the real problem was all the uppity trans activists,”Sandifer argued in an angry blog post.Wikipedia haslong been criticisedfor having an overwhelmingly homogeneous group of editors. In 2011, co-founder Jimmy Walesdescribed the typical Wikipedia editoras a 26-year-old geeky male with a PhD; the site’s ownresearchfound that 90% of editors are male.A survey from 2011found that fewer than 1% of editors self-identified as trans. The survey did not, however, offer editors the abilty to describe themselves as “trans” and “male” or “female” at the same time, which may have skewed the results.
Describing yourself as a &quot;hacker&quot; – in the sense of someone who messes around with computer code – could lead to your computer being seized without warning.A US government contractor, Battelle Energy Alliance, has used the fear of criminal hackers to obtain a court order to seize the computer of an open-source developer, Corey Thuen, who worked for it, despite him not being present in court.The company used an argument of copyright infringement and the reputed ability of hackers to cover their tracks online to obtain a court order against Thuen. It argued that he was likely to destroy evidence on his hard drive.As well as being an open-source developerfor Southfork Security, Thuen is a cybersecurity professional who previously worked for the FBI among other US government agencies.Theofficial documentsspecifically state that &quot;the court finds it significant that defendants are self-described hackers&quot;.&quot;This makes it likely that defendant Thuen will delete material on the hard drive of his computer that could be relevant to this case. The tipping point for the court comes from evidence that the defendants – in their own words – are hackers,&quot; the court documents continue.All hackers are badThe court&apos;s actions specifically call into question who should and shouldn&apos;t be labelled as a hacker, and whether all hackers are inherently disposed to use their technical skills with criminal intent – an idea disputed by the cybersecurity company Thuen works for,Southfork Security, on its website:We&apos;re pretty good at hacking things. The idea is:Identify what you want looked atWe hack itYou fix itYour customers love you and you gain a little bit more peace of mind. We wouldn&apos;t mind bringing your people in to participate and see first-hand how an attacker views your system. We&apos;d love to train ourselves out of a job.National securityThe order also prevented Thuen from releasing his allegedly copyright infringing open-source software, Visdom, a network visualisation and whitelisting tool that is used by security personnel to identify issues and weaknesses within a secure network.Thuen previously worked on a similar tool as an employee of Battelle Energy Alliance called &quot;Sophia&quot;, which forms the basis of the alleged copyright infringement.Battelle Energy Alliance also alleged that Thuen&apos;s work also endangered US national security, stating in its complaint that, &quot;given the nature of Sophia, defendants&apos; actions have implications for our national security. Defendants know of these implications but have ignored them.&quot;Astatement on the Southfork Security websitesaid: &quot;Obviously, until the injunction hearing, we can&apos;t say anything about what&apos;s going on, and until the forensics guys are done imaging our computers, as they are right now, we can&apos;t even type it. But I think it&apos;s safe to say that, no, we didn&apos;t steal government code and then open-source it.&quot;Github: evidence source?Thuen denies the allegations of copyright infringement, citing the different programming languages used between the two programs and the heavy reliance on existing open-source elements within Visdom as evidence, as well as thecomplete coding history availableon the open-source code storing and documentation website Github.&quot;They didn&apos;t check Github. And if they had, they&apos;d have found out that the open-source project is built in a different language, using open libraries,&quot; Andreas Schou a lawyer who has previously represented Southfork Securitytold TechDirt.&quot;Visdom&apos;s heavy use of open source libraries facilitated its development in a matter of several months,&quot; Thuen added.• Ex-hackers could be recruited tobolster the UK&apos;s cyberdefence force.
Troy Carter may be best known for his role as Lady Gaga's manager, but he's an increasingly prominent figure in the world of technology startups, having invested in firms including Spotify, Dropbox, Uber, Songza, Summly and other startups through hisAF Squarefund.Now Carter is preparing to ramp up his investment strategy, with PandoDaily reporting that he israising a fund of between $75m and $100mto chip in to seed and Series A funding rounds for tech startups.Carter told the Silicon Valley site that his strategy will be "opportunistic" rather than focused on specific sectors: "I didn't want to get hung up on a specific investment thesis just for the sake of a thesis."Music may still be a big part of AF Square's plans, though, judging by Carter's comment that "we need great minds around music: if entrepreneurs aren't incentivized, music is going to be stuck in the dark age".Carter has been a longtime backer of Spotify, in terms of moral support as well as his financial investment. While some prominent artists and managers have worried about the amount of money they get paid for every stream on Spotify and its rivals, back in 2011Carter was already praising streaming's ability to scale."What we're looking to do is not just about selling the CD or the digital file. It's how many people can we get the music to. How many people can experience it?" he said at Facebook's f8 conference that year. "If it was up to me, I'd give away the next album and put it on every handset that I can put it on, to get that scale."That hasn't quite come to pass, but Carter is heavily involved in the decision tomake Gaga's ARTPOP album available as an appas well as a traditional album when it comes out on 11 November.Described earlier this year as "a musical and visual engineering system that combines art, fashion, and technology with a new interactive worldwide community", the ARTPOP app has since beendescribed by Gaga as more of "an interactive jewel case" for her album, dampening down some of the hype around it.Troy Carter's investments also include Backplane, the US startup that powers Gaga's Little Monsters web community. Together with Justin Bieber's manager Scooter Braun, he epitomises a growing sense among music industry figures that investing in technology may be just as important as investing in artists in the coming years."I think the idea of having an application is the future," hetold The Guardian in November 2012. "People don't buy horses to ride around any more for transportation. I just think the world changes. As a business, we have to make the proper adjustments."That applies to artists too. In response to a question from PandoDaily about Thom Yorke's recent attacks on Spotify, Carter gave a pithy response: "Guess what – people had gripes when the CD came along."
A little more than two decades ago,Berlinhosted tens of thousands of US troops. In the early 1990s one of the most incongruous summer sights were the beach resorts along the lakes in Wansee, heaving with young US military personnel and equipped with the boom boxes and volleyball scene that any Silicon Valley resident would recognise.This is a city that has, in recent history, seen its fair share of disruption. Besides emerging markets to its east, Berlin has the ingredients for a succesful tech startup scene: reasonable rents, a host of universities pumping out skilled graduates and, like London, a critical mass of artists and cultural workers.It&apos;s a mark of the status and maturity of Berlin that it has been chosen as the venue of the first EuropeanDisruptconference, run byTechCrunchand also staged in San Francisco, New York and Beijing.Berlin - this is not about nostalgiaAlongside the traditional coffee-fuelled hackathons, Disrupt hosts discussions, a speakers&apos; platform and &quot;Battlefield&quot;, a platform for plucky tech companies to pitch their ideas in front of a panel of venture capitalists.Although the conference has global ambitions, it is very much a roadshow for the spirit of Silicon Valley. But Disrupt isn&apos;t in Berlin for nostalgic reasons. It is partly a statement on looking beyond London&apos;s thriving tech scene, but the German capital has its own a wealth of startups and, from a US perspective, is an ideal geographic location for any push not just into the west but also into the increasingly important eastern European markets. (According to Gartner Research,eastern Europe saw a 31.6% growth in smartphone purchases in the second quarter of 2013.)Sebastian Rumberg from Kreuzberg-basedBlinkist.comis exactly the kind of tech entrepreneur Disrupt hopes to attract, and his views about Berlin are emphatic .&quot;We didn&apos;t even consider a different city, because most of the big VCs have opened up an office in Berlin or moved their offices completely to Berlin,&quot; he said.Kreuzberg in Berlin, one of the key centers for tech startups in the city&nbsp;Photograph: Forget-Gautier/Sagaphoto.com/AlamyBut surely London&apos;s Silicon Roundabout trumps all that? Well it appears that London suffered because of its recent success.Mike Butcher, editor-at-large at TechCrunch, explained why the first Disrupt did not happen in London. &quot;While London&apos;s calendar has become crowded with tech startup conferences and events, Berlin&apos;s has remained busy but less troubled by major, large scale tech startup conferences,&quot; he said.&quot;That was one reason – but in the main it felt right at this point in time to acknowledge the explosion of growth in Berlin amongst startups like Soundcloud, ResearchGate and Wooga, many of which are being created up by an international set of founders.&quot;That&apos;s not to say we won&apos;t look at moving the conference to other major city centres around Europe once we have established ourselves.&quot;So what is London missing out on?Disrupt&apos;s Battlefield competition is where the young turks of the Berlin tech scene will get to prove themselves, and the competition has a good reputation in the US for backing winners with wings including global brands likeDropbox,MintandYammer. The company with the most compelling idea, chief executive and numbers will attract serious VC interest – and pocket a cheque for €40,000 (£34,000).The conference&apos;s &quot;Startup Alley&quot; sounds like an alt-folk band from Nashville, but it is the snazzy title for the typical conference rat-run of company stands with multifarious screens, tasteful publicity materials and stacks of business cards.There&apos;s a comprehensive lineup of company stands on offer, and some particularly interesting players from Turkey and the Arab states.With all the buzz around edu-tech, the alley&apos;s &quot;Education&quot; strand will also be particularly interesting. Berlin-based software developerCogeon&apos;s SMATH appclaims it will reinvent maths homework for 5th to 12th grade students, and that will feature alongsideUnlock Your Brain, an educational puzzle app triggered when you swipe your unlock screen.Some of the good and great of the Berlin startup scene will be among the speakers.Tech entrepreneurMarco Börriesis the man behind the highly disruptive open-source tools OpenOffice, and his latest projectNumberfouris attempting to do the same for the small business space.Oliver Samweris half of the much-discussed Samwer brothers. In 1999 he co-founded Alando.de, Germany&apos;s forerunner to eBay – but it became so dominant the US giant had the good sense to buy it. His latest venture isRocket Internet, a tech startup incubator based in Berlin, which is attracting huge interest.The Guardian will be along for the ride from 26-29 October, our Tech Weekly podcast will be on site and we will be tweeting at@guardiantw. And if you&apos;re hacking or pitching or writing cheques say hello.
It took a team of telecoms engineers two days to travel to the heart of the cyclone wreckage in Odisha province, but just two hours to fire up the emergency mobile phone network that is now providing a lifeline for aid workers and families dispersed by India's most devastating storm for 14 years.The three-metre high tripod antenna in the village of Chhatrapur is sending its signal over an area where flooded roads and flattened cellular towers would otherwise have caused a communications blackout.It is one of the instant networks managed by the Vodafone Foundation, the multinational telecoms group's charitable arm. The initiative began last year and is now supporting emergency response teams around the world."When you are one of thousands of people who are completely cut off, one of the first things you want to do is communicate to your loved ones that you have actually survived," says Andrew Dunnett, the foundation's director.Designed to fit into four suitcases, the equipment is light enough to travel on commercial flights or in the back of a jeep. During the past 18 months, it has been despatched to South Sudan to aid refugees from the border war, to Kenya's remote Kaikor region during a famine, and to the Philippines after hurricane Pablo.A typical mobile-phone tower can take months to build at a cost of tens of thousands of pounds. The DIY version has a shorter range – up to 12km (seven miles) - but can support heavy traffic of up to 15,000 simultaneous text messages or 100 calls.Consisting of an antenna, a laptop and a base transceiver station (a box that houses the electronics that create the signal), the equipment is powered by petrol generators and can be raised up using scaffolding polls or whatever materials come to hand.Communication is initially just between phones in the signal area, but satellite links, which can take a little longer to secure, then relay calls to the wider world.The equipment is simple, but it can save lives. When the Red Cross arrived in Kaikor last February, the nearest signal to their clinic was 80km away along a dirt track. Supplies were a six-hour drive away, and once teams had set off for the one- or two-week journey to fetch food and medicine, they could not be contacted.In July, Nadio Ekai Alany and his six-year-old son were shot by cattle raiders armed with machine guns while tending their animals. They were able to call for help from a nearby chieftain's home, which despite being theoretically out of range of the Kaikor mast, was located within a small pocket of reception. Within 24 hours they had been transported to the Red Cross clinic."Without the network, nothing could have been done for them," says Mark Lominito Lomoro, nursing supervisor at the camp. "We've had an improvement in the life of the people of Kaikor, not only in their health, but in the economy. Families are able to get money sent back from relatives in the city. By passing money between phones, villagers can buy household appliances or food for the day."M-Pesa, the mobile money-transfer service moving payments through Kenya's largely unbanked economy at such velocity that it has been blamed for inflation, made an appearance in Kaikor as soon as the instant network was switched on. Crucially, while installed for emergencies, the temporary masts remain until local operators provide a permanent solution. In Kaikor, Safaricom has now taken over.The concept of humanitarian calling was pioneered by Telecoms Sans Frontieres, a team of engineers who met in Bosnia and now run their mission from a former dental surgery in the Pyrenees. Vodafone contributed to its funding for years before deciding to create its own teams of volunteers.The company has now trained 70 of its staff, in 20 countries around the world, to set up instant networks. For Walter Saunders, whose day jobs is catering to the technology needs of the chief executive and his top team, the preparation involved being kidnapped with a bag over his head at a training camp in Wales.Volunteers are taught how to survive exposure to cold, how to behave at checkpoints, and how to pack as lightly as possible. For Saunders, this proved invaluable in South Sudan last summer, when his team had to pare back their luggage to a few items of clothing and a single shared washbag in order to meet the weight requirements for a plane designed to land on dirt tracks.His mission was at Yida camp, an expanse of five square-miles managed by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, where over 75,000 people have taken refuge from the Sudanese border war. Here, as in many other places, the phones preceded the network. When the signal first went live, the equipment registered 852 devices within a 3km radius in just one hour."That was mind-blowing," says Saunders. "We couldn't believe how many phones were in the camp."Initially, the network was reserved for aid workers and the Mongolian troops securing Yida. Then the humanitarian calling began, with three paid workers nominated by camp leaders trained to man fixed calling points, where they managed the queues and the scratch cards used to supply free credit."There was a lot of laughing and frivolity," says Saunders. "The guys running it were on a real buzz. And then there was the woman who had not spoken to her brother in six years."In isolated communities, the arrival of a signal can solve many problems, but there are limits. "We had an email from the priest in charge of Kaikor," Dunnett recalls. "He said: 'Thanks a lot for the network, this is amazing, now what can you do about the rain?'"
YouTube is expected to launch a new subscription music service by the end of this year, competing with Spotify and other streaming music firms, including YouTube's own parent company Google.YouTube's new service will be "designed with mobile listening in mind"according to music industry site Billboard, which also claims that there will be two tiers, with users able to choose between free and ad-supported, or a $10-a-month premium version with no ads and the ability to store songs for offline listening.Its report suggests that Google signed most of the necessary licensing deals with music labels and publishers while negotiating agreements for its separate Google Play Music All Access streaming service, which launched earlier in 2013.For its part, YouTube isn't commenting publicly on the speculation. "We're always working on new and better ways for people to enjoy YouTube content across all screens, and on giving partners more opportunities to reach their fans," explained a statement. "However, we have nothing to announce at this time."An announcement may be imminent, though. The company is holding its firstYouTube Music Awardson 3 November in New York: an MTV or Billboard-style awards ceremony with performances from Lady Gaga, Eminem and Arcade Fire among other artists. It would be an ideal time to unveil a new digital music service for a captive audience of fans.Speculation about YouTube's plans for a Spotify-style subscription service have been swirling for some time. In March, Fortune claimed thatYouTube was planning to launch it by the end of 2013, tipping a similar blend of free and premium access.It's also true that YouTube is probably already the world's biggest streaming music service, generating hundreds of millions of streams of music videos every month. YouTube currently attracts more than 1bn unique users a month, who collectively watch more than 6bn hours of video.In 2012, research firm Accustream iMedia Research claimed that38.4% of YouTube's views were music videos, and although that percentage may have fallen since due to the growth of other kinds of content on YouTube, music is still a huge factor.In October, Pew Research Center claimed that50% of US adult internet users watch music videos online, with that figure rising to 81% for 18-29 year-olds – a trend driven largely by YouTube.In September 2013,Miley Cyrus' YouTube channel alone notched up 270.1m views, with strong showings from other artists like Katy Perry (162.1m) and Avicii (105m) indicating music's popularity on YouTube.At the indier end of the scale, label Cooking Vinyl has said itmakes an average of $5,000 per million views on YouTube, with its distribution manager predicting that YouTube will become "our most important revenue stream in the future".YouTube has been building up its music activities for some time, too. Examples includeworking with Billboard and industry body the RIAAin the US to make YouTube views count towards, respectively, the Hot 100 singles chart and gold and platinum awards;launching a "Playbook" guideto help musicians get more out of YouTube; andbecoming one of the BBC's launch partnersfor its Playlister digital music service.YouTube launching a full subscription service has some intriguing implications for existing streaming music services, though. It's unclear how much it would complement rather than compete with Google Play Music All Access, for example, with that service part of Google's Android business.Another rival would be Vevo, the music videos service that not only uses YouTube as its main distribution channel, but which counts Google as one of its shareholdersfollowing an investment earlier this year.Vevo's latest metrics show it generating 4bn monthly streams in June 2013, with mobile and connected TV apps accounting for 30% of those views. A mobile-focused YouTube music service would be a strong competitor for those eyeballs. YouTube recently said that mobile devices now account for 40% of its total views, up from 25% this time last year.A dedicated YouTube music service will also pose stiff competition for Spotify, Deezer, Rdio and other on-demand streaming firms, and could even hasten Apple's transformation of iTunes from a downloads store into a streaming service – something that has so far focused on personal radio service iTunes Radio.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple fends off $248m demand by Wi-Lan in patent suit &gt;&gt; San Jose Mercury NewsApple won a patent-infringement trial in which Wi-Lan was seeking $248m from the iPhone maker over an invention for wireless technology used in mobile devices.Apple didn't infringe a patent for technology used in wireless networking, a federal jury in Marshall, Texas, said Wednesday. The jury, which deliberated for just over an hour, also said the two patent claims were invalid.Wi-Lan said it was reviewing its options, and that it "does not believe previous license agreements signed related to the patents are negatively impacted by this decision."Wouldn't be sure about that; earlier licencees include Samsung and Ericsson. Wi-Lan's only revenues are from its patents: $19.9m in the second quarter. Nice business if you can get it.Mail in Mavericks changes the Gmail equation &gt;&gt; TidbitsJoe Kissell:Apple Mail and Gmail were never a fantastic combination out of the box, because Gmail has a wacky, highly nonstandard way of using IMAP, and Mail always wanted to treat Gmail as though it were a conventional IMAP server. But, after much trial and error, I eventually found a combination of Mail settings and Gmail settings that, prior to Mavericks, resulted in a stable — and indeed largely pleasant — experience…Well, forget about that under Mavericks. In fact, following those old directions now will lead you far from bliss. And if you followed them before upgrading to Mavericks, you'll need to take some steps to undo some of the problems.Very poorly documented by Apple. If you rely on Gmail in Mail, the advice seems to be: don't upgrade.Might Google have a sly motive behind Motorola? &gt;&gt; WSJ.comFarhad Majoo argues that because Google wants to get everyone online all the time, it wants to use Motorola to drive down the average price of Apple'sandSamsung's smartphones:Today there are lots of companies making cheap Android phones, but many of those phones are junk—underpowered, clogged with adware, and hobbled as Web surfing devices. That's why customers are still willing to pay Apple and Samsung premium prices for smartphones.Hence Google's emerging vision for its smartphone division. Think of Motorola as the hardware version of the Android strategy—not a profit-seeking entity, but instead one whose only eventual economic motive is to create pretty good phones at reasonable prices. In doing so, it hopes to force Apple and Samsung to slash their hardware prices—and thus earnings—accelerating the smartphone's path toward becoming a commodity device.The only wrinkle in this theory: So far, there's no evidence that the Motorola is pushing down prices.It's a great theory apart from the fact that there's absolutely no way that Motorola could ever get the scale necessary to have the slightest impact on Apple. And as for affecting Samsung - forget it. The $13bn mystery of what Motorola is "for" continues.Apple aims to ship 10 million plus 9.7-inch iPads in 4Q13 &gt;&gt; DigitimesThe company's supply chains started gearing up for the release of a new 9.7-inch iPad in the third quarter and expect to see strong orders from the company as Apple anticipates a surge in shipments exceeding 10m units during the fourth quarter largely due to the year-end holidays.The next-generation 9.7in iPad is expected to come with IPS panels supplied by LG Display, Samsung Display and Sharp, with LG responsible for 70% of shipments, Samsung 20% and Sharp 10%.Interesting ratios of screen makers there. No word on how many iPad minis (of both hues) it expects to make.Apple and oranges &gt;&gt; Microsoft TechNet blogsFrank X Shaw, head of Microsoft PR:Perhaps attendees at Apple's event were required to work on iOS devices that don't allow them to have two windows open for side-by-side comparisons, so let me help them out by highlighting the following facts:• The Surface and Surface 2 are less expensive than the iPad 2 and iPad Air respectively, and yet offer more storage, both onboard and in the cloud.• … come with full versions of Office 2013, including Outlook, not non-standard, non-cross-platform, imitation apps that can't share docs with the rest of the world.• … offer additional native productivity enhancing capabilities like kickstands, USB ports, SD card slots and multiple keyboard options.• … include interfaces for opening multiple windows, either side by side or layered to fit the way most people actually work.So, when I see Apple drop the price of their struggling, lightweight productivity apps, I don't see a shot across our bow, I see an attempt to play catch up.Making money from movie streaming sites: an insider's story &gt;&gt; TorrentFreakTorrentFreak has been speaking to an individual with a wealth of experience in this field [of uploading torrents of pirated films]. To protect his identity we'll have to be vague about where he operates, but suffice to say he's one of the most prolific uploaders and linkers online today with a hundreds of thousands of links spread and 30,000 movies and TV shows uploaded…"I had just moved to Puerto Vallarta [Mexico] and went to a network's website to watch a TV Show I had missed and I was blocked because I was outside the US. Grrrrr. Then a friend told me about [Richard O'Dwyer's former site] TVShack and a whole new world opened up to me. The site itself was ugly and clunky but it provided the market with what it needed and me with 100's of hours of entertainment," John explains.While the site was clearly fulfilling unmet demand, not even TVShack had all the answers. This caused John to start contributing to the piracy ecosystem himself.It's the affiliate schemes which make it work for people like 'John'.Google experiments with giant banner ads on top of search results &gt;&gt; The VergeGoogle is experimenting with enormous banner advertisements for queries that are associated with brands. Digital marketing company Synrgyfirst spottedthe test after running a search for Southwest Airlines. The search returned a large banner ad similar to a cover photo on Facebook, followed by some top links on Southwest's website. "This is a very limited test in the US; one of many we run," a Google spokesperson told The Verge.Banner ads on Google results? Danny Sullivan points out that Google "promised" in 2005 that it would never do this: "There will be no banner ads on the Google homepage or web search results pages. There will not be crazy, flashy, graphical doodads flying and popping up all over the Google site. Ever." It's now doing precisely that with as many as 30 advertisers.PC addict RM finally quits its building habit, plans to axe 300 jobs &gt;&gt; The Channel"The division will exit the declining and low margin sale of personal computing devices. A significant reduction will also be made in the scale of the division's associated sales and marketing activities and in central services functions," RM said.Existing projects will be fulfilled and RM will continue to resell third-party infrastructure hardware – for that read servers, storage, etc – as part of the continuing services business.RM will begin a consultation with affected staffers regarding proposed redundancies. "The proposal is to reduce UK headcount, including temporary staff, by around 300 over the next 12 months".With BSF activity being "rundown" and the exit from the PC business, RM warned revenues at the ET division all decline by about 50%t (£90m) over the next two years.The closure of the PC business will result in one-off costs of £10m that will be reflected in the fiscal '13 results for the year ended 30 November, provisions for property and redundancies.Brutal.Whither Liberal Arts? The missing iPad story &gt;&gt; StratecheryBen Thompson (who has worked at Apple) tries to put his finger on the essence that's missing from Apple's presentation - and, he wonders, perhaps its internal thinking:Jobs's second speech [in 2011] – like the second iPad, and like the entire presentation that preceded it – was fuller, more filled out. Apple had launched the iPad in 2010 not quite sure of its place in the universe, but a year later, the vision was clear: it was not that the iPad needed to be better at jobs done by a laptop or smartphone, as Jobs promised in 2010; rather, the iPad was capable of previously unimagined applications that were truly life-changing. To put it another way, the iPad 1 launch featured Pages, a pale imitation of a PC word processor; the iPad 2 launch featured GarageBand, an application that was immensely better on the iPad by virtue of it not being a PC.Yesterday's opening, however, gave the opposite impression: of staleness, and ossification. Words and illustrations on a canvas, literally replayed, without life, without originality. Perhaps it's because it was a video instead of the spoken word, but the rest of the presentation was in the same vein.As he points out, the human stories were missing from the iPad presentations in favour of many speeds and feeds. He thinks Scott Forstall embodied Jobs's thinking better. That may be true. When Jobs wasn't the chief executive, he got fired from Apple too.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
Facebook has begun to experiment with warning messages on some violent, sexual and sensitive content in the wake of the controversy over its decision to allow a graphic video of a beheading, the Guardian has learned.The site is also discussing the introduction of age-restriction warnings that would alert a user to more extreme content, which – according to Facebook's revised policy – will be allowed if deemed to be in a suitable context.Facebook's policy change follows comments by David Cameron on Twitter on Tuesday calling the site "irresponsible" for posting "beheading videos, especially without a warning". It is also stepping up what it calls its "educational checkpointing", delivering tailored messages to users who attempt to post unsuitable content and sometimes stopping them from uploading content for a period.Earlier this week the social network appeared to reverse its policy under which violent content had been banned. It blocked a violent video in May this year but then allowed a Mexican protest group to post footage of a masked drugs-cartel member murdering a woman and call on members of its Facebook page to join its campaign against the cartels in Mexico.  This prompted anger from charities supporting the families of hostages, including Hostage UK, which said this type of video would add "imaginable suffering" to the families of the victims.Facebook said it had extended its policy on controversial content to allow context to be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. A post intended to provoke discussion among campaigners would be allowed, for example, where a graphic video being shared and joked about would be removed. "We ask that people who share graphic content for the purpose of condemning it do so in a responsible manner, carefully selecting their audience and warning them about the nature of the content so they can make an informed choice about it," said Facebook in a statement.The firm, which is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, has regularly been the subject of controversy over its policy decisions – disputes that have intensified as its site's size has grown. Many users were uncomfortable with the introduction of a news feed in 2006, while the site was restricted to US students. Later controversies focused around its location tool, targeted advertising and, in 2011, its decision to remove photographs of breastfeeding mothers with exposed nipples.The site's censorship guidelines were leaked in 2012, revealing that breastfeeding animals were acceptable, however, "in the context of food processing or hunting as it occurs in nature".A Facebook spokesperson described age-restriction tools as promising but said the company was not planning to announce a widespread implementation. "We piloted putting up a graphic-content warning message on one of these videos before it came down. [Age restrictions] could be a useful solution but we don't have the technology in place today."
Taiwanese smartphone maker HTC has halted at least one of its four main manufacturing lines, accounting for at least a fifth of total capacity, and is outsourcing production as a sales slump puts pressure on its cash flow, according to sources with direct knowledge of the situation.A Reuters reporter who visited an HTC factory at the company&apos;s former headquarters in Taoyuan, about an hour&apos;s drive from Taipei, saw loading docks shuttered and a sign on a locked lobby door that read: &quot;Lobby is temporarily closed for use. Thank you for your cooperation.&quot;HTC launched its latest version of the flagship One series handsets this year but has struggled to gain traction in a market dominated by larger rivals Apple and Samsung Electronics.The company, whose woes have been exacerbated by supply chain constraints and internal turmoil,reported its first quarterly loss in more than a decade this month, of 3.5bn Taiwanese dollars (£73m) and its cash flow from operations dropped to a negative £440m as of the end of June, indicating that it was spending more than it was receiving.Despite lacklustre sales, HTC devices usually receive rave reviews, and it has in recent months expanded its range to include smaller and larger models of the One phone and hinted at further products, including a tablet and a wearable device.HTC initially denied it was shutting down any production, in Taiwan or elsewhere, and declined to comment on whether it was in discussions to outsource production.Update:in afiling to the Taiwanese stock exchangeon Wednesday, the company said: &quot;HTC is not shutting down nor does it have plans to sell any of its factory assets. HTC has a strong cash position and financial structure, and will provide the latest financials in our upcoming earnings call to investors and the broader community.&quot; That call will be on 5 November.The statement does not however contradict the sources&apos; suggestion that production at one of the lines has been halted.&apos;Strong balance sheet&apos;&quot;HTC is not shutting down nor has plans to sell any of its factory assets,&quot; the company said in an emailed response to queries from Reuters. &quot;HTC has a very strong balance sheet and will provide the latest financials in our upcoming earnings call to investors and the broader community.&quot;When asked about what Reuters had seen at the factory in a telephone interview, HTC chief marketing officer Ben Ho declined to give details, but said: &quot;Like any manufacturer, we do volume planning to optimize our lines, our manufacturing and production facilities.&quot;Whether we are operating those facilities depends on market demand and our own expectations. When you have less demand you work with less facilities to optimize your costs. When you have demand, or bigger growth, you definitely have to activate all these facilities.&quot;According to data from HTC and the research company IDC, HTC&apos;s quarterly phone shipments have dropped from a peak of 13.3m units in the third quarter of 2011 to around 6m units in the same period this year.Two of the four sources who spoke to Reuters said HTC had combined production from two lines at Taoyuan into one, which would reduce its potential capacity by about 1m phones per month, out of a total capacity of around 2.5m at the site and around 4.5m including operations elsewhere.Manufacturing has been halted since at least August on the line, housed in a facility called Building H, while production continued at a nearby plant known as TY5.Most of the assembly lines in HTC&apos;s Shanghai factory, which can produce 2m phones a month, were also out of production, one of the sources said, with only a small number of phones being produced for sale inside China.HTC was considering selling the out-of-use production lines in China and Taiwan, two of the sources said.&quot;HTC&apos;s cash flow is not doing well. It has to do something soon to generate cash,&quot; said one of the sources with direct knowledge of the manufacturing sale plan.Temporary handoverHTC&apos; chief executive Peter Chou, the driving force behind its award-winning handsets, has temporarily handed some of his duties to the company&apos;s chairwoman in order to focus on innovation and product development, the Financial Times reported on Monday.Shares of HTC jumped following the report, on hopes that the change of duties among the top management will help it recapture the sparkle that saw it named Device Manufacturer of the Year at the World Mobile Congress in 2011, when its stock was flying high. The company&apos;s market value has roughly halved this year.HTC, which positions itself as a premium brand, will contract out some manufacturing to FIH Mobile Ltd International , a subsidiary of Taiwan&apos;s Hon Hai Precision Industry, because contract manufacturers have better component supply management and cost control. It is also in talks with Compal Communications and Wistron Corp, according to four sources.FIH and Hon Hai declined to comment. Spokesmen for Compal Communications and Wistron could not be reached for comment. HTC also declined to comment.One of the sources said HTC&apos;s top management had agreed to separate the design and manufacturing businesses, which would more closely resemble Apple&apos;s model of creating products in-house but then outsourcing to assemblers such as Hon Hai. By contrast Samsung Electronics both designs and manufacturers its smartphones.However, sources said even if HTC splits the two operations, it would likely hold onto some of its factory capacity initially as the split-up would be a slow process and HTC might explore the possibility of making phones for others.Chou aims for a doublingIn a Town Hall meeting with staff on Tuesday, CEO Chou said HTC aimed to double its shares of the high-end smartphone market to 15% next year.When asked about separating out the manufacturing business, he said the company did not rule out the possibility. The comments were reported by local media and confirmed by Ho.At the end of June, HTC&apos;s cash position decreased to NT$48.1bn (£1.02bn) from NT$55.5bn (£1.18bn) a year earlier as cash flow turned negative. Its balance sheet also shows that bill payments increased while less money came in from customers. Receivables - the money owed to the business - increased by NT$7.9bn (£167m), but accounts payable - the money by the business to its suppliers - dropped NT$7.8bn (£165m).HTC&apos;s return on assets (ROA) - an indicator of how effectively a company uses its assets to generate earnings - is expected to turn negative this year at -0.69%, the first time since 1999, according to SmartEstimates. Its ROA last year was 8.1%.No potential bidders for the manufacturing space have surfaced so far, in part because the global smartphone and tablet PC supply chain is facing overcapacity, the sources said. As a result, HTC is also exploring other options to generate income by using its factories, sources said.Several analyst and media reports said HTC was in talks with Chinese peer Lenovo Group Ltdand US online retailer Amazon. There is also speculation that Hon Hai will use HTC&apos;s plant for its own production.Hon Hai said there was no plan to use HTC&apos;s production lines in Taoyuan now. Lenovo declined to comment and Amazon could not be reached for comment.
Google has started testing new parental control features for its Chrome web browser and Chrome OS laptops to allow easy restriction of content and services.Unveiled in beta form, Google&apos;s new Chrome &quot;supervised users&quot; allow parents to set up restricted profiles for their children that block specific sites or only allow access to approved &quot;whitelisted&quot; sites, providing granular control of a child&apos;s internet access.&quot;To help those who may need some guidance browsing the web, we’re kicking off a beta channel preview of a new feature called supervised users,&quot; said Pam Greene, a software engineer for Google in ablog post.Sweep of historyGoogle&apos;s Chrome browser is available as a free download and will run on Windows, OS X and Linux, while its Chrome OS laptops such asathe Chromebook 11are built solely around the Chrome browser.Google&apos;s safe search can also be activated permanently, filtering adult content in search. Parents will also be able to view a child&apos;s browsing history.Once set up, &quot;you’ll be able to visit chrome.com/manage to review a history of web pages [your son] has visited, determine sites that you want to allow or block, and manage permissions for any blocked websites he has requested to view,&quot; Greene explained.Get hacking?But as with any restrictions, children may be able to find a way to bypass them.&quot;If there is a &quot;hack&quot; to bypass Google&apos;s new features then kids will quickly find out what this is,&quot; said Richard Edwards, consumer IT specialist at research firm Ovum. He suggested that education of children to the dangers of the internet is just as important as content restrictions.&quot;If a child knows why his or her parents have put this layer in place then maybe they&apos;ll think twice before they sidestep it. Speaking as a parent, getting a child to think twice is ultimately the best you can hope for,&quot; Edwards said.Access requestedGoogle Chrome holds 40.8% of the browser market share of desktop and laptop computers according todata collected by StatCounter in September, significantly larger than the 28.56% market share for Internet Explorer and Firefox&apos;s 18.36%. Apple&apos;s Safari holds a smaller 8.52% of the browser market share.Children using restricted user profiles will be able to specifically request access a site, which parents will then have to manually approve, allowing children to add sites with approval that are essential for homework assignments, for example.&quot;Chromebooks with this kind of potential for parental internet control, as well as Amazon&apos;s Kindle with its family settings, are a tremendous development,&quot; said Stephen Balkam, chief executive of Family Online Safety Institute.&quot;We are very encouraged by this kind of general development, particularly at a time when we&apos;re now seeing tablets for two-year-olds, the ability to restrict internet access for the young and shift to a more monitored environment as they grow older is incredibly important,&quot; Balkam explained.Google has enabled the restricted user features within its test version of its Chrome browser called theChrome Beta channel, which allows users to install early versions of Chrome to get new features faster and for testing, as well as its Chrome OS Chromebook laptops.&quot;Non Windows devices have little concept of shared or managed use, so I expect to see more of this kind of thing appearing on post-PC devices as parents focus on the actual use of these devices by their children,&quot; said Richard Edwards, consumer IT specialist of research firm Ovum.• Google&apos;s newChromebook 11: surprisingly good, for a Chromebook
Nokia launched new phones - acouple of phabletsand atablettoo - the other day. But looking more broadly at the joint attempts by Stephen Elop and Steve Ballmer to turn Windows Phone into the third ecosystem in the mobile space, how are things going?Nokia&apos;s third-quarter financial results come out next Tuesday, and it&apos;s going to want to get out from the losses that have plagued its handset division over the past six quarters. So how is it looking?Thegood newsfor Nokia: according toa reported estimate in the Wall Street Journal, it sold more than 8m Lumia smartphones in the quarter to the end of September - up from 7.4m reported in the second quarter.Thebad newsfor Nokia: according to numbers from Counterpoint Research shared with the Guardian, the total number of handsets sold in the US during that most recent quarter is around 1m. That&apos;s a substantial improvement on the 0.5m sold in the second quarter - but seen in the context of a US market where 34.9m smartphones were sold during the third quarter, according to Counterpoint, it doesn&apos;t look so hot.Nokia, Apple and Samsung smartphone sales in the US from April to September 2013. Source: Counterpoint Research. Photograph: /PR/Counterpoint ResearchThegood news: those million phones have probably almost all gone to new users, according to separate data analysis by the Guardian of ComScore&apos;s installed base information (about who actually owns phones, not how many were sold).On the surface, it doesn&apos;t seem like many. For the five months from April through to the end of August, Counterpoint&apos;s data suggests Nokia sold 1.6m phones in the US. ComScore&apos;s separate MobiLens data, showing the installed base of phones, suggests that Windows Phone ownership in the US went from 4.1m in March to4.3m by August(and 4.64m in September). But - only 200,000 new users?That picture is muddied by people who have Windows Mobile phones which they&apos;ve abandoned, while new Windows Phone owners come aboard. There were 5.9m Windows Mobile owners in October 2010, when Windows Phone launched, and the total number of Windows Mobile/Windows Phone owners hit a trough in December 2012 at 3.65m, on ComScore&apos;s figures. Windows Phone ownership is certainly growing faster than the numbers suggest because Windows Mobile machines are dying off.Thebad news: Apple and Samsung are both adding users much more quickly. ComScore&apos;s data suggests that in the same April to end-August period, Apple added 5.7m owners (while selling 13.6m phones, so 42% went to existing owners upgrading) and Samsung added 5.57m owners (while selling 19.8m phones, so 28% were new owners). Overall, Android added about 3.7m users. (Samsung, you can conclude, is taking share from other Android OEMs.)Theother bad news: in market share terms (ie what percentage do you have of sales), Nokia managed less than 3%.Thegood news: as said above, it&apos;s probably increasing its installed base rather more quickly than its market share suggests. But it&apos;s a long way from the 10% market share that it is seeing in some European countries and the higher figures in places such as Mexico.Nokia handset sales by region, in millions. (All handsets, including feature phones, Asha, Symbian and Lumia. Symbian was discontinued in Q2 2013). Photograph: /GuardianNokia has big challenges: a breakdown of its regional sales (to the second quarter; more detail next week) shows that it has been going down, and that markets such as China - where its handsets used to be so strong - have been cut apart.Nokia average selling prices (ASPs) for all phones, by region. Source: Nokia financial data. Photograph: /GuardianAlthough the average selling price of its handsets is highest in the US (because it only sells smartphones there), it is being pushed down in many other markets. That&apos;s a problem, especially for Microsoft which will have to decide whether to keep the low-end handset business going, and for how long. It might have to make a tough decision - as BlackBerry is doing - to cut back on the handset portfolio and offer just the high-end Lumia phones (which is expanding fast nonetheless).But as for being the third ecosystem - there&apos;s still a way to go to get near the actual number of BlackBerry handsets in peoples&apos; hands. Although - ray of light - it has certainly passed the BB10 installed base already, which numbers 4m at most.• Why didn&apos;t Nokia go with Android?Stephen Elop explained his reasoning to us.
This week on Tech Weekly presented by Guardian Technology editorCharles Arthur, we hear from co-founder of the audio-streaming technology brand Sonos,Tom Cullen, about the company's latest product, the Play:1. Tom also explains why streaming audio has lagged behind video in the home.Charles is joined by the Guardian's head of technology,Jemima Kiss, and technology reporter for the GuardianSamuel Gibbsto go over a giant week for tablet releases, including the latest iteration of the iPad – the iPad Air (Click here to see Charles' iPad Air hands-on video),Microsoft's Surface 2andNokia's foray into the tablet and phablet market.
Michael Brough is on a roll. The one-man indie game factory has already released one of the best smartphone games of the year in the shape of cunning 'Rouge-like', 868-Hack; he's also working on potentially the finest iPad title too – the idiosyncratic space blaster, Helix. Now he is moving into sport. Sort of.In Smesport, two teams battle it out to control the screen, which is divided into seven lanes. At first, each lane is half red, half blue, but if a player moves their circular avatar to the very end of their own coloured section of a lane, they push that colour toward the opponent's end. When a lane is totally filled with one colour, it's a 'goal' – three goals and you win.To add complexity, there is also a ball, that can be picked up, passed to your team-mate or tackled from an opposing player; and when you have possession of the ball, you 'push' your colour faster. In effect, it's a really clever combination, part cerebral strategy game of zonal domination, part sports simulation, where accurate passing and positional awareness are paramount.Like many of Brough's projects, this one evolved from a game jam – in this case, 7dRTS, a mini-offshoot of the regular Ludam Dare challenges, in which developers were tasked with making a real-time strategy title in seven days."Jonathan Brodsky from Lucky Frame came up with the idea of a [multiplayer online battle arena mod]Dotavariant with three one-person teams, and we just started talking about that," says Brough. "It got me thinking about how you could reduce Dota down to something even more simple. I started making a game with two players on each team and two lanes to fight over. I made a prototype, and I kept simplifying it. But it wasn't coming together. I took a step back and thought, okay, what else can I remove to make this work? I ended up with a series of lanes that you just push to occupy space, and it worked.  But I've ended with something that looks nothing like Dota!"Whatever the heck it is, it's insanely compelling. The two-person teams have to develop clever emergent strategies, combining offensive play with defensive awareness: if an opponent is pushing their colour towards the very end of the lane, you can rush in and block it, but then you're stuck until your opponent gives up – or you get the ball, allowing you to push back. But concentrating too much on ball possession may allow a sneaky foe to quietly push one lane along in the background.Multiple strategies arise and fall as the ball ricochets around the screen; do you play like a strategy gamer or a fan of Fifa or PES? You can pull elements from either, employing zonal or man-marking tactics from football, while using attrition and stealth concepts from the RTS genre. It all happens at a blistering pace, players shouting at each other, the sound of joypad buttons being hammered.Playing Smesport against Brough at GameCity's One Arcade, it took me back to the days of sci-fi sports sims – the likes of Lucasfilm's BallBlazer and The Bitmap Brother's Speedball 2. These titles brought a sparse futuristic steeliness to the whole concept of sport; they stripped out the obsessions with contemporary authenticity and showmanship that define licensed football games, and amped up the whole sense of cerebral battle. Smesport does the same.I ask if Brough has thought about adding to the complexity. Perhaps introducing power-ups or differently skilled team members. "I'm still thinking about that," he says. "When it was still like Dota, it was obvious that characters should have different abilities. It kind of seems unnecessary now. I may code up some different abilities, just to test it. But I'll keep the simple mode – it's quite a complex game already – adding another layer on top of that may be too much."When I profiled Brough earlier this year, he closed the interview with a lovely quote: "you always have to subtract from somewhere." It is mantra that seems counter-intuitive in the ever more detail-obsessed game design universe. But it works here, and Smesport should stand beside SportsFriends as an intriguing exploration of sporting simulation. It is also a bloody exciting and demanding game in its own right.Smesport is in development for PC, release date is to be confirmed. You can find out more atMichael Brough's website
A US firm that uses in-store CCTV to provide real-world analytics to shopkeepers has raised $15m in series B funding.Prism Skylabs uses data from video cameras located in shops to track the routes of users around brick-and-mortar stores, providing a physical analogue to the analytics packages used by online retailers.Employees equipped with mobile phones and laptops can use Prism Skylabs’ package to look at any store in a retail chain, and get on-demand visual summaries of consumer paths through the location.The analytics package is intended to allow business owners to discover the information buried within their CCTV footage without having to rewatch hundreds of hours of surveillance tapes. Prism Skylabs promises to answer questions such as whether the store was open on time, which products customers pick up the most, and how long people waiting in line.The company also promises to protect customers’ privacy. Indeed, one of the key features is the ability to remove shoppers from CCTV images, “both protecting privacy and giving retailers an uninhibited view of any product, shelf, or display”.The focus is very much on providing aggregate data for shopkeepers, and not, for the time being,tracking individual customersin the manner that some US retailers have started doing with mobile phone data.Prism Skylabs’ series B funding follows the $7.5m it raised in its 2011 series A.•QuBit analyses consumer behaviouron retail website; here, co-founder Graham describes combining creativity and data
Thenew iPadcannot move me. My old iPad was stolen a year ago and, for the life of me, I can't think why I thought I ever needed one.One year ago this week, I was visiting London and having drinks in a bar popular with local office workers. High ceilings, ambient low lights, the jostling of besuited office workers. But in Covent Garden, there's a breed of worker who are really artists: pickpockets. Cunning and light-fingered, they create barely a breeze as they clean you out of every moderately valuable thing you own.This pickpocket, invisible to us, lifted the flap of my closed messenger bag and took two items: my iPad and my old iPod. No common thief, he: a day later, he or one of his customers informed my friends via very polite emails that I was no longer in possession of the device. He left my iPhone in my bag, a kind of wink of both discernment and decency – a gentlemanly touch that has me, to this day, picturing him as a rather dashing, rogueish figure, like the Scarlet Pimpernel, sweeping through central London. He probably looked more like an accountant from Croydon, like everyone else in the bar, but I prefer the more romantic vision.In any case, he helped himself to my entire life. My iPad had my credit card numbers, passport number, sensitive contact lists, work emails, and my itineraries. It had also become an alternative to my laptop, allowing me to peck out emails while at coffee shops. In fact, it made me seek out coffee shops just so I could sit with my iPad, daydreaming and looking at maps.Its loss also made my bag quite a bit lighter. As a journalist, I had become used to toting around a satellite's worth of iDevices – mainly because anything made by Apple, while adorable, had the battery life of a potato hooked up with a wire. They were always running out of power quickly and I kept the others as backups to take photographs or record meetings.In the end, however, the iPad figured little in my regrets.It was the loss of the iPod that stung me more; it predated my iPhone and held more precious photos, as well as being a useful way to ignore other people on the Tube. I was also slightly embarrassed that the thief might find my eclectic choice in music – Mozart here, Flo-Rida there – perplexing. In keeping with my vision of him, I pictured him chortling with amused sophistication over my playlists at his club while swirling an amber sherry in a large glass. He would talk about erasing all of my laboriously downloaded songs, and he would consider it a mercy.At first, I thought that losing my iPad would be painful. It held a wealth of personal information – none of it, of course, backed up to the cloud. I used it as a Kindle, reading magazines and books and using it for Twitter and Facebook. It was a laptop in a pinch, and, better than a laptop, never slowed down airport security, although the attached keyboard made it heavy and not as pleasing as it was on its own. I paid richly to keep it connected to the internet, so I didn't have to beg for Wi-Fi in strange places, as I did with the iPod and laptop. I watched movies and TV shows on it, and it was indispensable for fiddling around for boring hours on a plane.What surprised me was that losing my iPad – or, at least, having it stolen – was actuallyliberating.I no longer paid a full extra phone bill every month to keep it connected to 3G. I read books on my Kindle, which was lighter and had a battery life longer than the lifespan of a gnat. I tweeted on my iPhone and watched videos on my laptop.But mostly, I stopped jumping to my iPad whenever I had a moment of boredom. I did other things instead of resorting to that electronic pacifier every time I wanted to block the world out or didn't want to be where I was.After a few weeks without the iPad, I wondered why I ever thought I needed one. It seemed not only extraneous, but decadent. I went back to my laptop. Typing on a regular keyboard, as opposed to the off-brand doohickeys sold for the iPad, was a relief, and it made my reporting and writing easier. Email was not so important that I had to haul out an entire separate device to manage it: between my computers at work and home and the iPhone, communications were well handled. No one ever asked why they couldn't find me.It's not as if I don't occasionally have pangs of nostalgia. When a colleague showed off his iPad mini a few months ago, I petted and cooed like everyone else. WhenApple CEO Tim Cook bragged about selling 170m iPads– one for every two people in the US – I understood his pride.Butseeing the new iPad itselfleft me cold. The shiny bezel, the retina display, the apps … it was still the old iPad, albeit lighter and with a snazzier makeover. I still can't think of any reason why it's essential, or even important, to my life.For all the uses to which I would put it, it was too expensive a toy. iPads are so common now, despite their price, that they no longer confer importance or prestige; they're about as glamorous as bluetooth headsets. And they still run out of battery life fast, keeping people tethered to their chargers or outlets. For that kind of trouble, I'd rather be fueling up an iPhone. Or better yet, reading for days and days unbothered on my Kindle.The Scarlet Pimpernel of Covent Garden long ago sold my iPad and spent the money. He's welcome to it. I've had nothing but peace ever since.
Social games firm Kabam has been having big mobile hits with games like The Hobbit: Kingdoms of Middle-earth, Fast &amp; Furious 6: The Game and Kingdoms of Camelot: Battle for the North.Fond of a colon, then. But Kabam is also one of the fastest growing publishers in the mobile games world, as chief executive Kevin Chou explains in an interview with The Guardian."We did $180m last year in revenue, and this year we're on track to do well over $300m. We were profitable last year, and we've been profitable every single quarter this year as well," says Chou.Kabam is an interesting company, because it's making a lot of money from social games based on big movies, as well as from its own titles like Kingdoms of Camelot, which has made more than $250m across Facebook, web and mobile since its launch four years ago.The company has strong ties with Hollywood too: Warner Bros Entertainment CEO Kevin Tsujihara joined its board last year, while MGM chairman and CEO Gary Barber is a board observer.At a time when the biggest mobile games tend to be unbranded – Candy Crush, Clash of Clans and Puzzle &amp; Dragons for example – Kabam's strategy of working with big entertainment brands is relatively unusual. As is its ability to make a decent profit from them."The way we do these deals with the movie studios is setting up deals that keep both parties motivated in investing in the franchises for a multi-year period of time," says Chou."In the past, these films would have $100m marketing budgets, and they'd carve out $500,000 to make a low-quality Flash advergame or something to be played online for free. But the kind of games we're making become massive revenue and profit generators that engage people 365 days a year, in between the movies."There's a long and ignoble history of movie games on console, computer and mobile devices alike, where the games follow the plot closely, and play jack-of-all-genres without mastering any of them. Chou says Kabam has found its Hollywood partners willing to try something different."We're not trying to recreate the movie in a game, we're trying to create a parallel track that fits within the overall function of what the movie is trying to do," says Chou."We'll use characters, and sometimes very specific plotlines will appear in the game, but we don't try to follow the plot of the movie itself. Maybe something is mentioned really briefly in the movie, and we'll then dive into that part more deeply in the game."Kevin Chou, CEO of KabamKabam's games are free-to-play, making their money mainly from in-app purchases: mithril in The Hobbit, gold in Fast &amp; Furious and so on, with bundles ranging from £1.49 to £69.99 in price in the now-traditional style.Free-to-play gaming continues to spark arguments among gamers and games developers alike, from criticism of over-aggressive "monetisation" tactics in games through to the originality of their content. How does Chou think the quality of F2P games is evolving?"There is such a difference from the early days of social gaming. You're getting to console-quality graphics on the latest iOS and Android devices, and something like Clash of Clans is highly polished and much closer to competing with a lot of PC games," he says."For most consumers downloading and playing some of these new free-to-play games, they're going to be delighted by the graphical fidelity. But the second, much more nuanced question is quality in terms of the business model and how content is designed."Chou notes that the mobile/social games industry is still figuring out what works, what doesn't work, and what annoys players when it comes to free-to-play games – and specifically the challenge of creating something that up to 98% of players won't pay for, and in games where they compete against one another, getting the balance right between progression through paying versus playing."It's the area that gets gamers the most upset, but publishers are still refining their models," says Chou. "Creating the right balance is really hard, but these kinds of games are really exciting, when you can have thousands of players competing with one another. The industry is still evolving, and people are trying things out."Chou is also enthusiastic about the prospect of seeing one of Kabam's main rivals go public in the near future. Candy Crush Saga publisher King hasreportedly filed pre-IPO documents in the US, although they won't be made public until just before its roadshow for potential investors."The King IPO is really exciting: there hasn't really been a mobile freemium company that's gone public. Zynga is still primarily a Facebook company, and [public] firms like Gameloft and Glu have gone from premium download-type games to trying to figure out the freemium model," says Chou. "King is the first company that gets mobile and free-to-play to go public."More on free-to-play mobile gaming-Clash of Clans maker Supercell raises $1.5bn-GungHo Online's mobile game Puzzle &amp; Dragons made $113m in April-Kristian Segerstrale talks free-to-play and the future of gamingHow can King avoid Zynga-style disappointment after its IPO, though? One theory I have about Zynga's struggles in recent times is that at the peak of its success with FarmVille on Facebook, a lot of players came to think of the game as an addiction rather than a pleasure.When they kicked the habit – a phrase I've heard a number of friends and family use about FarmVille – they didn't want to get sucked in to another 'Ville' game. King may be riding high with Candy Crush Saga, but is there a danger of the same thing happening with 'Saga' games if it doesn't watch out?"It's a very fair question. The gaming industry needs to prove that it can create sustainable franchises over many years, just like the major movie studios and television production companies do," says Chou."I think the gaming industry will start to look a little bit more like the television industry: shows like Breaking Bad and Game of Thrones run for multiple years, and that's the model the gaming industry needs to move towards. They don't create Game of Thrones 2, they just create more and more content in the same universe, which fans already love and are excited about."Chou says Kabam is currently investing heavily in new games, splitting its resources roughly 50/50 between own-IP and big brands. The company also has a publishing business for third-party developers, which itlaunched in March this year with 15 games from partners, and an emphasis on localising games from Asian developers for the West."That's grown from nothing to tens of millions of dollars as a business this year, and next year we have really big plans for that part of our business," says Chou. "The tablet market is growing at 70%, so you're seeing us double down and take a very large percentage of our profits and reinvest them in future products and services."He also thinks that the success of publishers like King is bringing mobile games a new respect from other entertainment industries, including movies and television."Two years ago, the top mobile game might make $4m in a single month. Now, Candy Crush Saga is probably making $2m a day, so we're talking about $60m of monthly revenues for that game alone," says Chou."Gaming hasn't always been put on the same level as film or television, yet it's a market that's growing so fast, and especially with King's IPO and potentially a Kabam IPO, gaming is now elevated. If  you're making hundreds of millions of dollars with a franchise, you can invest tens of millions of dollars in making a product. That's the same budget as a Breaking Bad episode."The Hobbit has been one of Kabam's most successful licensing dealsKabam may work more with television brands in the future, with Chou citing the success of EA's free-to-play Simpsons game as an eye-opener for producers in that industry. He's less sure about other entertainment sectors: music, for example."I think you'll see more television-based games, and definitely more film. Music is definitely interesting for games, but the music labels are really hard to work with in terms of getting their content and getting a reasonable fee," says Chou.But wait: "potentially a Kabam IPO". The company has been regularly tipped in recent months to be the next big mobile games firm to go public, and Kabam seems to be happy to fan those rumours, even though Chou – formerly a VC himself – does the obligatory dampening-down of the significance of an IPO for his company's long-term strategy."Entrepreneurs think of an IPO as an end-point, but the public markets think of it as the beginning point. If your goal is to create a great company with great products, an IPO is just one milestone. it's not even really as important as creating your next great product," he says."We think of an IPO as a way to realise some of the value, and evolve from a startup into a fully-fledged company. And with a little over $300m in annual revenues and a track record of profitability, we're certainly within the required scale."So, when will Kabam go public? "We certainly weren't interested in being the closest to Zynga's IPO," says Chou, suggesting that the negative publicity around that company's performance and share price since it went public was seen as a risk by Kabam's board for its own prospects."We're actively looking at King's IPO and having a lot of broad discussions about the right time for Kabam to IPO. We have a very patient board, so we want to make sure the market conditions are good. But as I said, the strategy is to build a company with great products. The IPO is just a realisation of the value."
US police have used Google Earth satellite imagery to identify illegal rows of marijuana plants being cultivated by a drug farmer.Authorities in Oregon used an aircraft to verify the satellite information taken in June, which showed dozens of plants in neat rows. Curtis Croft was discovered to be allegedly growing three times as many plants as he was allowed to propagate by law for medical purposes.Croft was registered to grow medical marijuana for five people, which amounts to 30 mature plants, but police raid in September seized 94 plants, according to authorities.Croft wasarraigned on drug chargeslast week and released.This isn&apos;t the first time Google Earth&apos;s satellite imagery has been used to find drug farms: in2009 Swiss authoritiesused satellite photos from the free service to identify a large plantation of marijuana hidden within a cornfield.• In June,Google Earth images revealedanother North Korean prison camp
The Pirate Bay co-founder Gottfrid Svartholm Warg has launched a formal appeal in the hacking case that could see him deported to from Sweden to Denmark, where he could face up to six years in prison.The appeal is likely todelay the extradition, which wasdue to go through next week.Warg is accusedof involvement in one of Denmark&apos;s biggest hacking attacks – on databases holding driving licence records, official email messages and millions of social security numbers. The attacks on the databases, all run by a Danish subsidiary of the US technology company CSC, took place between April and August last year.Wargclaimedthat errors in the extradition order and the lack of closure of his original hacking case of which elements were dismissed at appeal, including accusations of hacking Swedish bank Nordea, which could have an impact on the validity of the Danish extradition order.&quot;Formal errors were made in terms of the warrant form, of the information I have received on its contents as well as in terms of my rights to have this presented in the Swedish language,&quot; said Warg.Warg explained it was found that his computer could have been controlled remotely, which resulted in him being cleared of suspicion by the Swedish court of appeals over his hacking of Nordea in Sweden.Because of the similarities between the Swedish and Danish cases, Warg believes his clearance of charges related to hacking Nordea in Sweden should also apply to the Danish charges.&quot;It must be investigated whether this act should be considered ‘the same offence’ or not [in Denmark],&quot; said Warg.• In October, the Pirate Bay&apos;s PirateBrowser web browserreached 1m downloads
• The iPad mini stays the same size as the previous generation.• It receives the retina display and A7 processor of its bigger sibling.• It will cost from £319 ($399), with the 4G version starting at £419 ($529).• It will be available from 1 November.• The original iPad mini will stay in the lineup, selling for £249 ($299).
• The iPad air is just 7.5mm thick and weighs 454g, making it the thinnest and lightest full-sized iPad to date.• Its 64-bit A7X processor has double the performance of the previous generation and adds performance and security benefits, along with potential reductions in complexity of both hardware and software, which should aid reliability.• It is available in silver with white and grey with black.• It will cost £399 ($499) and upwards, with the 4G version starting at £499 ($629).• It will be available from 1 November.• The iPad 2 will stay in the lineup, selling for £329 ($399).
Apple’s new operating system claims it will make desktop computing a less cluttered experience by allowing documents, files and folders to be &apos;tagged&apos;.The aim is to make Finder – Apple&apos;s version of ‘My Computer’ on a PC – a more simple user experience.This is a feature borrowed from blogging and social media where users often tag their posts. In simple terms, instead of having to create multiple folders to organise documents, users will be able to assign files with multiple tags, which can later be used to search.University students writing an essay for a cybernetics module, for example, might tag the document with “uni”, “second year”, “cybernetics” and perhaps a keyword about the essay.How to tag files• The easiest way is that whenever users save a file, the dropdown box will ask for a file name as well as tags. Tags can also be more than one word, so &apos;second year&apos; rather than &apos;secondyear&apos;.• If you have a number of files already within Finder, you can use the new ‘Tags’ button. This allows you to assign tags to entire folders or highlighted files.• The final way of tagging is the most complicated and requires users to control-click, and then add tags from the pop-up box.One of eight different colours will appear in a circle next to files with at least one tag, and colours will be explained in a key on Finder’s sidebar.If files have more than one tag, they will be assigned overlapping circles.To find tagged files, users can either search for specific words, or click on popular tags from Finder’s sidebar.Users can also click “All tags” to discover the various tags they have created and if they click on individual tags, they will be shown every file on their Mac with that tag.This isn’t the first time that Apple has attempted to make Finder more accessible. Apple introduced Launchpad to a previous operating system, Lion, which allowed users to easily open applications.
